Add a new User interface or atleast more instructions, at new ID swipe printer stations, regarding scanning of documents. While printing is extremely easy, I've seen that scanning takes you a mid level user atleast a few minutes to figure out how to work them. For novice users, it's much longer.

Additional classes for software training, specifically NVIVO, would be greatly appreciated.

By way of explanation for my answers: My computer is 2 years old - not ancient. IT shouldn't judge the computer but focus on helping the distressed user. 
The emails from UITS always sounds dire so I tend to ignore them.
I'd try out Canvas (and consider switching from Oncourse) but it wasn't clear if it's best to do this at the beginning of a semester or if one could try it out and switch midway.
I appreciate the sites on campus where I can print my documents without having to swipe my ID.

Consistent WiFi in the optometry building. It is terrible.

Don't completely block java from the instructor computers connected to projectors in classrooms. 
Allow my department to utilize the cloud storage integration on their network with the necessary changes they need to make to adapt it to their network's needs.
Improve wifi connectivity in older buildings.
Improve log-on time on stc computers (it seemed to suddenly be way longer when the update to windows 8 took place).

From my experience as a graduate student interacting with IT support staff, there seems to be a barrier between "UITS problems" and "departmental ITG problems" that shouldn't be there. Departmental ITG should have more experience with UITS services their clients use everyday and it is very frustrating when a problem is encountered and after a day of trying to find the right person at ITG they shrug their shoulders and point you to the door.

Get some labs with two screens

Great job!!!

I am a student at the Maurer School of Law. While the wifi has greatly improved since last year, there are still rooms in which I am unable to connect to IU Secure (214). This is frustrating because I am able to connect in 216 and 213. 
It would also be AMAZING if we could get a color printer in the library and printers on the second and third floor of the library!

I am generally in the School of Education or Ballentine Hall and consistently have trouble getting connected to IU Secure. 
I have tried to enable my carrel computer to print to the office printer and have been pretty confused- and have asked for help several times through email or walk-in services to UITS and have had people tell me they are unable to help me or they don't know.
I am shocked at the small amount of scanners in my building, and the ones we do have are fantastically slow. Further, when I need to print in the SOE library (because I am unable to do so from my computer or my office computer) it is very difficult to find an open computer. I cannot believe there aren't any Mac computers in the SOE library. I'm sure that isn't your fault or whoever is doing this survey but I may as well say it! Compared to my experiences at other universities, I am pretty frustrated with the technology services at IU.

I am in the School of Education and the big computer labs on the 2nd floor have been under construction for a long time, which is highly inconvenient. Moreover, the printer in the room that isn't under construction is always broken. These are the only computer labs we have, especially since the library is often busy when it's open and it's closed a lot on the weekends! 
IU Secure has been a disaster this year. Connectivity has been crap in the SoE. Lately, it's been a little better, but at the beginning of the year, you couldn't stay connected.

I don't like the new system of knowing how many pages you have left to print in a given semester. The old system was fairly transparent - telling you the number of pages and, if I remember correctly, the names of documents printer. The new system seems very opaque. Even if there are now different charges for different types of printing there should be some predictor how many 2-sided black and white copies you could print with the remaining allotment, etc. Also, you can only view where you last printed and not see the names of documents. Most changes UITS implements I believe are good, but the change to the printing quota information I think is very bad.

I emailed UITS about [IRD], but UITS has been COMPLETELY unresponsive and has not answered any of my email queries. I have received ONE automated response. This is a potential legal matter and needs to be addressed and resolved quickly, yet UITS is completely ignoring my requests. This is unacceptable.

I wish the WIFI routers were stronger and you could stay connected to one longer or more seamless transfer from one to another.

I would certainly benefit if the HPS group would offer consulting for individualized computing problems.

I'm not sure if ATT WiFi is part of UITS but I wish this was available at most places on campus instead of mainly areas near sample gates. I've realized that my Kindle is not compatible with IU Secure which I'm still not sure why.

If there are WiFi issues in a building, I would like UITS to be able to check it out. The WiFi in the optometry building is borderline useless. We have had issues since August, but I was told nothing could be looked at until summer.

Instructions or handy users' guides on how to use devices that we don't use very often such as projectors and other in-classroom technology equipments that are not so straightforward to use.. Sometimes our teachers have a hard time turning them on our can't solve some problems that come up during classes...

It is often a challenge to load IU anyware software, whatever you can do to ensure ease of use would be helpful.

It would be great if the plotters at the library didn't require the use of Macs. I had never used a Mac in my life, so getting my files ready enough for someone to help me with was difficult.

It would be great if we could have access to more FREE software

IU Secure does not always connect to my various devices. And the wireless internet in Ballantine Hall is often spotty

IU secure has been really bad this year. The workstations (Mac) at the Union take way too long to open any applications. Printing in fine arts is prohibitively slow.

IU Secure has gotten considerably more difficult to connect to and kicks me off repeatedly during my classes and research. It would be extremely helpful if this was cleared up.

IU Secure never works. Wireless on this campus is beyond terrible compared to other schools.

IUB is my second university environment, but my least favorite when it comes to UITS supportive services as I believe that the students who work in this area are usually rude and nonchalant about what they do. I've needed help on a few occasions and have encountered very low customer service from different students working in this department. Hopefully, students who work in this area can be more courteous when other students come in for help. Overall, I have appreciated the services I received. Thank you.

Just have a staff member in the STCs more often (specifically in the EDUC building 2nd floor STC, although I realize that has now been under construction for some months). The thing is, when a printer goes down or there's no paper and no way to find any paper, you are stopped in your tracks. I know we can call UITS on the nearby phone, but when you need something printed in the next 10 minutes .... Otherwise, excellent STCs in general.

login time is ridiculous. A full 5 minutes sometimes.

Make the WiFi not take five minutes to connect every time

Overall the services have been great, but the quality of the WIFI is frustrating at times.

Please put instruction on how to use the new scanning system. It is very confusing!

Seriously, stop sending me so many damn surveys. Stop it. Why in the hell does every single organization, club, institution, or interaction result in a damn survey. 30% of my email every week is surveys. Stop sending me surveys. I'm tired of deleting emails. I am very unsatisfied. Very.

The wifi in Ballantine Hall is very weak and usually unusable for my Android phone and Nexus 10 tablet. The signal in the IMU is also bad, though not quite as bad as Ballantine. If I could change one thing about UITS, it would be a stronger and more reliable wifi connection.

There is no true difference between canvas and oncourse. Please pick one and use it universally - it gets confusing for the student body.

Wireless is VERY spotty in the chemistry building, often connectivity is completely lost.
Chemistry ITG is amazingly helpful.
Wells Library IT staff has also been helpful in answering questions, helping with software downloads, and ensuring printers/plotters work well.

Better support for wifi on smartphones.

I am a distance graduate student. I would have appreciated info/tutrorials on using the library services online as well as accessing other resources. As it was, I was not made aware on the resources available. I found out about them by chance or by exploring on my own. This led to time and frustration that could have been avoided. I was happy with the services once I discovered them, but it took a while to get there. I happened to listen to one of the "Talk Nerdy to Me" podcasts, which I loved! It was one from the beginning of the year in which IT services were explained. This was helpful. Why are there no current episodes on iTunes? I tried to listen on my phone from the website, but it can't/won't load properly.

I would very much like UITS to take into consideration WHEELCHAIR ACCESS to facilities and equipment on campus. I can't even use a printer on campus anymore since the latest "improvements."

More Mac-specific support

We need upgraded computer equipment in Central Stores (printmaking). What we have is barely functional.
We need more locations that offer color printing (like the fine arts building!!!)
We need a place where students can bring our desktop computers for service (seriously?? A giant university with no desktop computer repair?)

Software Services

N/A

N/A

Na

No

IU Secure is horrible. It consistently kicks people off of the internet, it is slow, and is unreliable.

Wireless connections in SPEA can be pretty horrible. Weak and slow connections, to connections that drop off every so often (partially a Mac problem, but I've heard other people without Macs mention the same issue). I've had to take my phone off wifi at times because using data is way faster; however, it was also part of the reason I went over my data allowance for the month.

Wireless connection is poor in quality. It is neither stable nor reliable as usually expected to be.
IUWare service is perfect for support learning.
If IU list system is much integrated to the outlook, it will be better.
Student Self Service web site is ridiculous. Look and feel is something like from 10 years ago and works unbelievably slowly. All academic system is not unified and meaninglessly dispersed over several system and it seems you should change who is in charge of directing information system for academic administration.

Classes on setting up on setting a Wordpress site (.org, not .com) would be great. Also, maybe some project consulting sessions where people could come in and get help with whatever computer projects (like websites or whatever) they are doing.

Classroom tech consistently has issues. The fact that you can't use presenter view in PowerPoint is just absurd. And too many profs/instructors have problems with sound, projection, etc.- even when they follow the directions provided.

Don't know if my comments were just lost! So I'll retype. I am a [IRD] student in [IRD] year with IU. I would have appreciated tutorials or guidance on using online library services. I needed to use them for research, and it took a lot of extra time exploring to figure out the best way. It would have saved me time and frustration if there were built-in support. Maybe a zero hours course for orienting those new students? I wasn't even aware of any of the research services mentioned in this survey. This is the first place I've even read the names of those services. Additional support/teaching would have been extremely helpful and appreciated. Something students don't need to ask for help from, because many, like me, don't know what help to ask for because we don't know what's available. I listened to several episodes of the "Talk Nerdy to Me" podcast which I enjoyed! An episode from near the start of the academic year was helpful because they discussed available services. Why are there no new episodes available on iTunes? I tried to listen from the website, but it kept resulting in a loading error from the tablet and phone I tried. I would love to listen from my iTunes subscription! :)

I continue to be disappointed with the lack of consideration for wheelchair access to equipment. Standing computer and printing stations leave me with NO access in many places on campus. I have not found a single printer on campus I can use since the equipment was last updated. I'm a student; I NEED TO PRINT! Many labs lack even a wheelchair accessible computer. It's 2015... the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 has been around for twenty five years now, but it is still blatantly disregarded.

I don't know if you can change things in Canvas, but the messaging and discussion sections are not very user friendly. In Oncourse you could see which messages were read and which ones were unread. In Canvas as soon as you scroll over a discussion post it registers it as read. I find it very hard to follow along with discussion threads. In the messaging part, I find it difficult to organize the messages. I like Echo360/Zoom though. I am in the [IRD] and it is a great resource. I can listen to lectures if I can't attend live. When I am there live, I can share my screen to get specific help. I love it.

When I left [IRD] there was no exit interview, another common standard practice. I could have asked for one, but why bother? Nothing says 'We're not interested in improving things' better than making a departing employee ask for an exit interview.

I submitted an email question about Canvas last fall and I received a message back that my question would be forwarded to a specialist, and I no one ever contacted me.

It would be great if IU Secure was more reliable. It always drops on my laptop and tablet. I've actually started using the hotspot on my phone to get reliable wifi, which uses my data.

Library staff (Simon Music) unhelpful with printer/scanner problems. They always seem to be on Facebook or Reddit. It seems rather unprofessional since everyone can see what they are doing.

More access to color printing
Better equipment for Central Stores Annex (printmaking)
Computer repair for students with desktop computers-- including hardware issues!

My mobile phone has never been able to access the IU Secure internet, and my I have to sign in to the network every time I turn on my laptop even though it is set as the default. This has been really annoying, but I don't know what the problem is.

n

N/A

N/A

No

No

No

No.

None.

Not at the moment

Please get faster and more reliable internet options than IU Secure.

SPHBITS had been very friendly and helpful. They are quick to respond and assist with issues.

thank you

The public mac computers take a long time to log in. I have sometimes waited 15mins for one open so that I can access my e-mail. I also liked the computers with logins better than having to have your ID card to access printing.

The student UITS workers who work in the Music Library are very up and down. The ones who work first thing in the morning are typically very good, but the ones who work later in the day are often not helpful. I've seen them blatantly ignore a person who was having trouble with the printers right next to them while they watched YouTube videos. Also, when more than one worker is staffed at a time, they usually just sit and talk to each other rather than help people with obvious problems.

When I've called in, I've appreciated the support I've received. Would like more classes for things like Excel and SAS throughout the semester, perhaps more weekend options would be nice since I generally can't make week ones.

wireless connection in the law school is inconsistent

You should replace person in charge of information system for academic administration. Course registration tools, Add/Drop tools, late add/drop tool and iStart is ridiculousy user un-friendly. They should have united and have same look and feel.

Your people in the library support area are mostly kind of terrible at customer service. Like, how hard is it just to politely tell someone where the desk is to check out books, especially when it's 15 feet away AND the UITS desk is positioned so that it definitely looks like a place to ask questions. And, how is it even possible that they don't know where to check out books when they work LITERALLY 15 feet away in the LIBRARY? This has happened twice with two different employees. AND I had to stand there awkwardly because the guy was staring so hard at his computer screen he didn't notice me. Also, one of them told one of my friends to go talk to a librarian to reserve a study room, and it turns out that the rooms aren't even reservable. If they are going to sit at a desk where they look like they are there to answer questions, they should at least know some basic information about the place they are working in, even if it's not their department.
Also, it is hard to find things on Canvas, because there are too many different places a file could be. Oncourse was nice because there was only "Resources" as an option. Now there's pages and files, and I can never figure out what goes where.