A grester capacity for devices to connect to IU Secure is greatly needed.

it has always turned out that I had too much work at the time, and had to drop out. I think I'm not a good survey respondent. I am always happy with MUSIC IT, and [IRD] in a couple of years. Recently UITS REwired our old building, and everything does move more quickly and smoothly. Thank you!"

I can't connect to iu secure on my smartphone what's wrong

I think it would be good to provide multiple vaccine programs

I would like IUTS to offer students the ability to access audio manuals. I have issues reading but couldn't have this technology because no Doctor had signed a document qualifying me to that need, and my question is do I need a doctor to know what works best for my study? I understand this is not of your resources or might not be but I came to understand that it is still a technology issue that IUTS can solve

If there is a way to make iu secure more of a consistent reliable internet service that would be nice.

Improvement to wireless network- does not connect to mobile devices and rarely will connect to my laptop
More knowledge on canvas provided to students- there was not a smooth transition
Something that would make scheduling for classes less complex and stressful

It would be nice if more of the printers around campus would allow me to print without needing my student ID. Although the new printers around campus are nice and new, I never carry my student ID with me on campus so being able to just type my username and passphrase into the printer instead is much easier.

It's often very difficult to connect to IU Secure, especially on my smartphone.

IU ANYwhere support for Chromebooks would be fantastic.

IU secure is awful. It rarely works for me and when it does I constantly have to reconnect. Also, it usually makes me login in when I come to campus from my apartment even though I use IU secure almost every day. When I lived in the dorms last year it worked perfectly fine but I have had the complete opposite experience this year.

iu secure is the most unreliable wifi I have ever used. It is a very inconviecence as a college student needing wifi all the time. I'm pretty sure iu should be able to invest in a better internet.

IU Secure needs some work.

IU Secure tends to have times when it's just so... finky for a couple of minutes before it returns to normal. Plus, the service is lacking in some area.
Being able to print from my phone.
The app is slow and laggy.
I feel like you can map out better where labs are/seats available in one thing.

Keep printer paper stocked!

My laptop automatically connects to IU Device Net instead of IU secure, and Device Net has literally not worked 1 time, I always end up switching to IU Secure, so all I would suggest is eradicating Device Net or fixing it because it is 500x slower than IU Secure

My only concern is that CyberDuck's link from IUware has adware attached to the website, and it's really inconvenient to get it off my Macbook. i think the adware file was called genio. It alters your default page on your web browser to search.genio.com or something along those lines. I just expected UITS links to not lead me to those kind of sites with adware attached to download files.

no

Nothing really, just fix the wifi so it works more than just half the time. A lot of times ill be doing work and the wifi will just go out on me or just not work all together.

Please fix the wifi in collins. it is repugnant

Please just improve the connect-ability and stability of IU Secure for laptops/smartphones. Nothing worse than when I'm working on webwork and the wifi goes out, so I have to restart the whole thing over.

Stop hiring people that don't have a background in technology. It gets frustrating calling and a student with a biology major answering and saying to call back later cause they don't know
Also, the Internet sucks
It'd be nice if we could connect to the Internet outside, like the arboretum like other universities do

Student Center is absolutely awful and needs to be replaced ASAP.

The printing stations on campus rarely cooperate the first time, which is very frustrating for students. I would love to see these printing stations become quicker and more efficient.

THE WIFI SUCKS THIS YEAR--GET BETTER WIFI. I HAVE NO IDEA WHAT YOU DID TO MAKE IT SUCK SO MUCH THIS YEAR, BUT NOW THE UNIVERSITY REALLY JEEDS TO FIX THIS BROKEN MESS THAT IS IU SECURE

There needs to be a sure way for everyone to link up to the wifi, and it shouldn't be as complicated of a process. I had to take my phone, tablet, and laptop all to an IT tech to help me sync them all in order to be able to get wifi for all of them, and yet still it is "iffy" at best.

When you mandate new branding, offer examples for WCMS sites.

Wifi is the biggest complaint; I am consistently getting kicked off and having to restart my computer to get back on.

Nah

There are some buildings, like Kelley and Ballantine where the wifi service sucks. Also, the printers in Ballantine never work and the computers have a hard time connecting to the correct printer. The mac computers all over campus are ridiculously slow and make it very difficult to quickly get on to print something before class.

Better wifi!

If possible there needs to be more time spent trying to figure out how to make IUsecure more reliable. There were more than a few times that the wireless network would drop me or just all out quit on daily usage and while in class.

Better IU Secure

IU SECURE SUCKS SO BAD

I would like the whole campus, outside of buildings, to provide Wifi.

N/A

I would just like to see better WiFi. I can imagine it's difficult with such a large campus but last year I feel that WiFi was better than this year. Often I can't find WiFi for 10 minutes, it says "not available" or "connecting" and I'm sitting right next to the router. So whatever you can do to make the WiFi strength better, PLEASE do it. It's frustrating when you're kicked off during a Skype interview or can't connect quickly enough to get something done on time.

You guys are awesome! I feel very secure that if i ever have a problem with my computer it can be fixed!

I would say that IU Secure wifi has been very poor lately... I work at a center desk and we have had some issues as well, even with the computers connected to the Ethernet ports...
Additionally I have had a lot of trouble in the last year with printing quotas, mainly that I have not received my full amount. And I know I'm not the only one so maybe being more efficient with this process.
I wish that the computers that have the small boxes and reset each day (I think you call them 'infostands' -- found by the lit desk in the IMU and in some residence halls) would have some way to save things temporarily to them. Sometimes if I want to print things off with multiple pages per sheet [such as my 25 page stats slides], it isn't an option unless it can be saved to the desktop and then reopened on the computer.... If there is a way to do so already, please make it easier to understand. I've tried the "box" thing on these computers and still have been unsuccessful.
Finally I miss the email option of print.iu.edu from my smartphones and computers. I live off campus but print on-campus. I would use this and send my documents via email to this before I left for class so that I could just go and release the print when I got to campus. Otherwise I have to either bring my computer and 'attempt' to connect to the printer finder (only 50% of the time works) which takes forever, or I have to log into an IU computer and print from there (not always many available). This feature was much more efficient traffic wise and was so so so useful. I was really disheartened when it started failing for me at the end of last semester.
Otherwise I think UITS is so amazing... You all have helped me with so many computer issues that I otherwise would be lost and confused by. Additionally whenever I have had issues, UITS has been great at fixing what they are able to!

none

Allow for swiping your card or entering your password on the computers to print

I don't know how valid my opinion is because I work for [IRD]. Can we get a coffee pot in the wells library?

There are things that are done as standard practices in other IT organizations the are not done at UITS that would improve the quality of administrative services. I was amazed that in my tenure at [IRD] I never had one annual performance review. I was amazed that there is very little in the way of documentation for standard procedures. I was amazed that there is no continuous improvement process to identify root causes, identify solutions and prevent recurrences.

I LOVE one.iu.edu. More students, especially more senior students need to be informed of it because it is fantastic. I can't wait for more teachers to also use Canvas! Keep up the great work!

If possible there needs to be more time spent trying to figure out how to make IUsecure more reliable. There were more than a few times that the wireless network would drop me or just all out quit on daily usage and while in class.

Improve IU Secure connectivity

IU SECURE WIRELESS CONNECTION IS GARBAGE

N/A

N/A

NA

no

no

No

Onestart is complete garbage, but one.iu.edu works well enough to compensate for the most part

Oops, last question pretty much covered this too.

overall, good.

The wifi in my residence hall is very bad. The signal tends to be weak, or the network will kick you off even when the signal is strong. I live in Forest and this is true of both towers and the center building.
Also, many computer workstations are set up with the mouse on the right side, and the mouse is zip-tied into that spot. This makes it nearly impossible for me to use them, as a left handed person. The stand up workstations in the psychology building are like this, and I have to unplug the mouse and move it over every time, which tangles the wires.

The wifi is difficult to use; it drops / disconnects multiple times a day.
The workstations / open computer labs around campus take an excessive amount of time to boot up after logging in.

You guys are doing fantastic, keep up the good work!