Colleagues, this morning and every morning when we come together, members rise and pledge allegiance to the flag. Every day, all across America, children in school, members of the military, officials and those civically engaged also pledge allegiance to the flag. Let us recall what that pledge says.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the Republic, to the Republic, for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
 The Republic for which it stands is what we are here to talk about today. A Republic if we can keep it. We gather today under the dome of this temple of democracy to exercise one of the most solemn powers that this body can take, the impeachment of the President of the United States.
 No member, regardless of party or politics, comes to Congress to impeach a president, but every one of us as our first act as a member of Congress stood on this historic house floor before our beautiful American flag and raised our hands in this sacred oath.
  I do solemnly swear that I will support and defend the Constitution of the United States against all enemies foreign and domestic. So help me God.
 For 230 years, members have taken that sacred oath, which makes us custodians of the Constitution. When our founders declared independence and established a new nation, they crafted a system of government unlike anyone ever seen before. A Republic starting with the sacred words, we the people. For centuries Americans have fought and died to defend democracy for the people, but very sadly now our founder’s vision of a Republic is under threat from actions from the White House. That is why today, as Speaker of the House, I solemnly and sadly opened the debate on the impeachment of the President of the United States.
 If we do not act now, we would be derelict in our duty. It is tragic that the president’s reckless actions make impeachment necessary. He gave us no choice. What we are discussing today is the established fact that the president violated the Constitution. It is a matter of fact that the president is an ongoing threat to our national security and the integrity of our elections, the basis of our democracy. Hundreds of historians, legal scholars, and formal prosecutors regardless of party had stated that the president committed impeachable offenses.
 Since today is a national civics lesson, though a sad one, I submit these documents for the record and commend them for students to study.
 What we are discussing today is the established fact that the president again violated the Constitution. It is a matter of fact that the president is again, an ongoing threat to our national security and the testimony of decorated war heroes, distinguished diplomats and patriotic career public servants, some of the president’s own appointees over the past weeks have told us this.
 The president used the power of his public office to obtain an improper personal political benefit at the expense of America’s national security. When a president weakens a democratic ally that is advancing American security interest by fighting an American adversary, the president weakens America. This abuse of power also jeopardizes the integrity of our elections. All Americans agree that American voters should choose our president, not some foreign government.
 The founders understood that it is profoundly corrosive for our democracy, for a president to invite interference in our elections. As George Washington, our nation’s patriot under whose gaze, we stand today, warned, “History and experience prove that foreign influence is one of the most painful foes of Republican government,” George Washington.
 Sadly, the American people have witnessed further wrongs of the president, which necessitate the Second Article of Impeachment, Obstruction of Congress. When the president’s wrongdoing was revealed, he launched an unprecedented, indiscriminate and categorical campaign of defiance and obstruction.
 Never before in the history of our nation have we seen a president declare and act if he is above the law. The president goes even so far as to say and act on this absurdity. When he says, Article Two says, “I can do whatever I want.” No, it doesn’t. That recklessness is a profound violation of the Constitution and our Republic, which endure because of our system of separation of power, three co-equal branches, each a check and balance on the other. A Republic. Again, if we can keep it.
 The founder’s great fear of a rogue or corrupt president is the very reason why they enshrined impeachment in the Constitution. As one founder William Davy of North Carolina warned, “Unless the Constitution contained an impeachment provision, a president might spare no efforts or means whatever to get himself reelected.” Another founder, George Mason, insisted that the president who procured his appointment in the first instance through improper and corrupt acts might repeat his guilt and return to power.
 We in Congress, Article One the legislative branch, must stand up and make clear to the American people and to all people, that this body still stands by the principles enshrined in the Constitution and defended by generations of Americans.
 Last week and observance of the 75th anniversary of the Battle of the Bulge, members travel to that hallowed ground to express our gratitude to the heroes of freedom, who sacrificed everything to secure victory of freedom over tyranny, not just for America but for the world. The veterans of that battle who were there in their nineties told us how after the war was won, the Europeans to whom they liberated would ask, “Why did you risk us? You don’t know us and give your lives to save us. We’re not Americans.” And our men would say, “We came here to fight for you, not because you are Americans, because we are Americans.”
 As our beloved chairman, Elijah Cummings and oversight committee chair, our North star said, when announcing his support for this action, “When the history books are written about this tumultuous error, I want them to show that I was among those in the House of Representatives who stood up to lawlessness and tyranny.” He also said almost prophetically, “When we are dancing with the angels, the question will be, what did we do to make sure we kept our democracy intact.” Elijah, as you know, has since passed on. Now he is dancing with the angels and I know that he and all of us here are very proud of the moral courage of members, want to honor the vision of our founders for a Republic, the sacrifice of our men and women in uniform to defend it, and the aspirations of our children to live freely within it.
 Today, we are here to defend democracy for the people. May God bless America. 
 Madam Speaker, the house of representatives must now consider two articles of impeachment against President Trump. The first article charges that the president use his public office to coerce a foreign government into attacking his political rival. The second article charges that the president took extreme and unprecedented steps to obstruct our investigation into his conduct. Taken together the two articles charge that President Trump placed his private political interests above our national security, above our elections, and above our system of checks and balances. After months of series of investigation, there can be no serious debate about the evidence at hand. On July 25th when he spoke to President Zelensky of Ukraine, President Trump had the upper hand. The president through his agents had already demanded that Ukraine announce an investigation of his political opponents. Ukraine needed our help, both military aid, which had been appropriated by Congress because of our security interests and an oval office meeting to show the world that the United States continues to stand with Ukraine against Russian aggression.
 President Trump should have been focused on the interests of the American people on that call. Instead, he prioritized his private political interests. President Trump asked President Zelensky for a favor. He wanted Ukraine to announce two bogus investigations, wanting to form a vice president Biden, then his leading opponent in the 2020 election, and another to advance a conspiracy theory that Ukraine not Russia attacked our elections in 2016. Neither requests was premised on any legitimate national security or foreign policy interest. One was intended to help President Trump conceal the truth about the 2016 election. The other was intended to help him gain an advantage in the 2020 election. After the call, President Trump ratcheted up the pressure. He deployed his private attorney and other agents, some acting far outside the regular channels of diplomacy to make his desires clear. There would be no aid and no meeting until Ukraine announced the sham investigations.
 To our founding generation, abusive power was a specific, well-defined offense. A president may not misuse the powers of the presidency to obtain an improper personal benefit. The evidence shows that President Trump did exactly that. For this alone, he should be impeached, but the first article also identifies two aggravating factors. When President Trump conditioned military aid on a personal favor, he harmed America’s national security, and when he demanded that a foreign government target his domestic political rival, he took steps to corrupt our next election. To the founders these offenses clearly merited removal from office. The president faces a second article of impeachment for his efforts to obstruct our investigation of his misconduct. The constitution grants the sole power of impeachment to the house of representatives. Within our system of checks and balances, the president may not decide for himself what constitutes a valid impeachment inquiry, nor may he ignore lawful subpoenas or direct others to do so.
 Many presidents, including President Trump, have asserted privileges and other objections to specific subpoenas, but only President Trump has ordered the categorical defiance of a congressional investigation. The automatic rejection of all subpoenas. The president is not above the law and he should be impeached for this, as well. Congress cannot wait for the next election to address this misconduct. President Trump has demonstrated a clear pattern of wrongdoing. This is not the first time he has solicited foreign interference in an election, has been exposed, and has attempted to obstruct the resulting investigation. We cannot rely on the next election as a remedy for presidential misconduct when the president threatens the very integrity of that election. He has shown us he will continue to put his selfish interests above the good of the country. We must act without delay. By his actions, President Trump has broken his oath of office. His conduct continues to undermine our constitution and threaten our next election. His actions warrant his impeachment and demand his removal from office. I urge my colleagues to support these articles and I reserve the balance of my time.

 Let me, let me thank my friend Mr. Cole for his kind words and I appreciate his leadership in the Rules Committee and the fact that he respects this institution, but Madame Speaker. Let me say again what happened here. The president withheld congressionally approved military aid to a country under siege to extract a personal political favor. That’s a cold hard fact. The question before us comes down to this, should a president be allowed to ask a foreign nation to interfere in an American election?
 I remember my first political experience as a middle schooler in 1972 leaving leaflets at the homes of a potential voters, urging them to support George McGovern for president. No relation by the way. I remember what an honor it was to ask people to support him even though I was too young to vote myself. And what a privilege it was later in life to ask voters for their support in my own campaigns. I’ve been part of winning campaigns and I’ve been proud of losing ones too. People I thought would be great presidents like Senator McGovern were never given that chance. Make no mistake. I was disappointed, but I accepted it. I would take losing an election any day of the week when the American people render that verdict, but I will never be okay if other nations decide our leaders for us. And the President of the United States is rolling out the welcome mat for that kind of foreign interference.
 To my Republican friends. Imagine any democratic president sitting in the oval office, President Obama, President Clinton, any of them. Would your answer here still be the same? No one should be allowed to use the powers of the presidency to undermine our elections, period. This isn’t about siding with your team. I didn’t swear an oath to defend a political party. I took an oath to uphold the Constitution of the United States of America. And when I vote yes on this rule and the underlying articles, my conscience will be clear.
 I ask all of my colleagues to search their souls before casting their votes. I ask them all to stand up for our democracy, to stand up for our Constitution. Mrs Madame Speaker, I urge a yes vote on the rule in the previous question. You’ll back the balance of my time and I move the previous question under resolution.
to paraphrase one of our founding mothers, Abigail Adams. People may let a president fall yet still remain a people, but if a president lets his people slip from him, he is no longer a president. Just as Abigail Adams warned, Donald Trump has let the people slip from him. He works for himself, not us. He tried to extort a foreign government into investigating a political rival, and he has unlawfully withheld witnesses and evidence. If we want a democracy, today, we must stand for the rule of law. A vote to impeach is a vote to remain a government that is of, for, and by the people. It is a vote born of great fear for our future, but also rooted in optimism that if we stand for the truth, for our constitution, we can continue to create a country of liberty, justice, and equality for all.

No one came to Congress to impeach a president. We came here to solve the mighty issues that impact the lives of the constituents we pledge to serve. I’m here because too many families in my district still rely on water trucked in from dozens of miles away. I’m here because too many New Mexican children still go to school hungry. I’m here because too many women in New Mexico drive for hours to find a doctor able to care for them. But this moment has found us. We have reached a point in time where our love of country compels action, where our duty to this Republic mandates that we do what’s right. The president’s behavior is so blatantly wrong that ignoring his abuses of power would be abdicating the oath we made to protect this country and uphold our constitution. Thank you. And I yield back.

Dear Ellie and James, this is a moment that you will read about in your history books. Today, I will vote to impeach the President of the United States, and I want you to know why. He broke our laws. He threatened our security. He abused the highest, most sacred office in our land. I want you to know that it does not feel good. I can’t stop thinking about the cost to our country, not just the impeachable offenses, but the collateral damage of a president who uses power like a weapon against his own people, our roads, our decency, degrades our dignity. I don’t yet know how they will tell the story of this era, but I want to tell you this story of this day. Let the record show that today, justice won, that we did our job, that we kept our word, that we stood our sacred ground. Let the record show that we did not let you down. I love you. Listen to mom, I’ll be home soon.

I hate no woman or man. Today, the American people should receive clarity and truth. The Constitution is the highest law of the land. The president breached and violated the Constitution of the United States of America. The president committed constitutional crimes. The president’s crimes are impeachable.
 John F. Kennedy said, “If this country should ever reach the point where any man or group of men, by force or threat of force, could defy the commands of our court and Constitution, then no law would stand free from doubt, and no citizen would be safe from his neighbors.”
 The facts are undisputed. First, President Trump violated his oath of office by placing his personal political interests above the national interest by scheming to coerce Ukraine into investigating a potential election opponent. Second, President Trump betrayed the nation by interest, by withholding the congressionally-agreed $391 million to a fragile ally against a very strong foe, Russia. Third, the essential purpose of the scheme concocted by the president was to enlist a foreign country to help in the 2020 election. These acts are constitutional crimes and abuse of power. The truth is the president did ask for a favor. Those were his own words.
 In the July 25th call, no mention of corruption, only the mention of the Bidens. The president was engaged in wrongdoing, and it’s a clear and present danger. He has a pattern, and his behavior remains a continuing threat to America’s national security. The truth is that abusive power does violate the Constitution. While both corrupting and cheating our American democracy, his acts betray the nation.
 He must take care to execute laws faithfully. This is the truth. Why does the truth matter? Because it matters to the farmer at his or her plow. It matters to the waitress on an early-morning shift. It matters to the steel worker building America. It matters to the teacher in a fifth-grade class. It matters to a mother kissing off her military recruit going off to war.
 The Constitution must be preserved. Our laws must be honored and respected. The bloodshed and sacrifice of fellow Americans cannot be ignored, trampled on, or ejected. Today, our actions on the vote taken today must be for no personal gain or grandeur. The bright light of this constitutional democracy has been dimmed because of his acts. The truth is no longer for all. It is for one man, Donald J. Trump, his truth, his way. We must reject that abuse of power because this is not America. No one is above the law. Alexander Hamilton said impeachment was designed to deal with the misconduct of public men and violation of public trust.
 The president has violated the trust. We must impeach Donald J. Trump.

Thank you Speaker and thank you Chairman Nadler for your leadership. As we navigate this challenging time, not just for our committee in Congress but for our country. It’s with profound sadness that I stand here today in support of these articles of impeachment. President Trump’s behavior is exactly what our Founders feared most. They knew that with the awesome power of the presidency came the risk of a president abusing that power for personal gain. They were particularly concerned about an executive who became entangled with foreign governments, corrupted our elections, or sought to avoid consequences for his own misconduct in office. That is why they included impeachment in the Constitution to protect our Republic. Our colleagues across the aisle have claimed that we’re impeaching the president because we don’t like him, but this moment is about more than disagreement with the president’s policies or personality. Those issues belong in the voting booth.
 Our task here is not to judge the president himself. Instead, we must judge his conduct and whether his actions have undermined our constitution. The president has committed the highest of high crimes under our Constitution. He used the highest office in our government and taxpayer dollars to pressure a foreign country to interfere in our elections. He undermined our national security. And when he got caught, he tried to cover it up, obstructing our investigation and refusing to produce subpoenaed documents and witnesses. A government where the president abuses his power is not of the people. A government where the president pressure’s a foreign country to undermine our elections is not by the people. And the government where the president puts his own interests before the country is not for the people. This isn’t complicated. You know it. I know it. The American people know it. President Trump’s wrongdoing and the urgent threat that his actions present to our next election and our democracy leaves us no principled alternative, but to support these articles of impeachment, our Constitution, our country, and our children depend upon it. I yield back.

Mr. Speaker, this is a day of accountability and defending our democracy. The facts in front of us are clear. This President, Donald J. Trump, coerced a fragile, foreign ally to investigate his political opponent and interfere in our elections. And he leveraged critically needed, congressionally approved military aid to Ukraine. The president’s allies want to claim that he did this because he cared about corruption, but if President Trump truly cared about corruption, then he would have listened to the talking points that were prepared by the National Security Council on anti-corruption. He did not. In fact on those two calls with President Zelensky, he never mentioned the word corruption. He did not abide by the Department of Defense’s own recommendation that Ukraine had passed all the anti-corruption benchmarks. And he didn’t listen to the unanimous conclusion of all of his top advisors that he must release that aid to Ukraine.
 He did release the aid in 2017 and 2018 but not in 2019. Why? Because in 2019 Vice-President Joe Biden was running for president. Because this is not hearsay, we have a responsibility. The president told us himself on national television exactly what he wanted from the phone call with President Zelensky. He came onto the White House lawn and he said, “I wanted President Zelensky to open an investigation into the Bidens.” He solicited foreign interference before, he is doing it now and he will do it again. The President is the smoking gun.
 Our founders, Mr. Speaker, entrusted us with the awesome responsibility of protecting our democracy, which gets its power, not from the bloodlines of monarchs, but from the votes of we the people. Without that, we are no longer a democracy. We are a monarchy or a dictatorship and so today to uphold my oath to Constitution and country, I will vote to impeach Donald J. Trump. 
Thank you Chairman Nadler for your leadership. Let’s start by making this very simple. No one in America could do what Donald Trump did and get away with it. No American elected official can call up a foreign government and ask for an investigation of a political opponent. No member of Congress can call up a foreign official and ask for help in a reelection campaign. If we did that, we would likely get indicted. No one is above the law, and the Constitution is the supreme law of the land. I first sworn an oath to the Constitution on active duty when I joined the United States Air Force on active duty. And the oath I took was not to a political party or to a president or to a king. It was to a document that has made America the greatest nation on earth and that document contains a safeguard for when the president’s abuse of power is so extreme that it warrants impeachment.
 We are not here because of policy disputes. While I disagree with the President, I acknowledge he has a right to restrict the number of refugees entering our country. He has a right to eliminate environmental executive orders. He has a right to sign a bill that has given tax breaks to the wealthy, but the President does not have the right to cheat and to solicit foreign interference in our elections. That is illegal. It is not what the voters elected him to do and we will not stand for it. The President’s actions in this case were particularly insidious because he also used our government for his private gain. He conditioned taxpayer funded military aid and a critical White House meeting with the Ukrainian president on the requirement that Ukraine publicly announce an investigation into his opponent. And by harming Ukrainian national security, the President also harmed U.S. national security.
 And then the President solicited foreign interference again on the south lawn of the White House, when he again asked Ukraine to investigate his political opponent and then he asked China, our peer competitor, to do the same. That abuse of power is not acceptable. Whether or not the Senate convicts, the House has an independent duty to do the right thing. That’s why we’ve passed over 275 bipartisan bills that are stuck in the Senate. Whether impeaching or legislating, we will continue to be faithful to the Constitution regardless of what the Senate may or may not do.
 Moreover, impeachment is a form of deterrence. Our children are watching. No president ever wants to be impeached, and whether Donald Trump leaves in one month, one year or five years, this impeachment is permanent. It will follow him around for the rest of his life and history books will record it. And if people know why we impeached, it’s all very simple. No one’s above the law. Not our commander in chief, not our president. 
Thank you, Mr. Speaker. American elections belong to the American people, not the American president and not foreign powers. No president may cheat the people by working with foreign governments to steal from us a free and fair election. And no president who attempts it may cover up that cheating by systematically obstructing Congress in our work. Article Two of the Constitution does not authorize a president to do whatever he wants. The reason we have a constitution is to keep government officials from doing whatever they want. If we the people lose the certainty of free and fair elections to presidential corruption and foreign manipulation, then we lose our democracy itself.
 The most precious inheritance we have received from prior generations that pledged their sacred honor and gave everything they had to defend it. The struggle for democracy is the meaning of America. That is why we remain the last, best hope of a world ravaged by authoritarianism, violence and corruption. We must act now to protect our elections and safeguard constitutional democracy for the enormous and unprecedented challenges that still lie ahead of us.
I rise in support of the articles of impeachment against Donald J. Trump, the 45th President of the United States. Mr. Speaker, no one runs for Congress to impeach a president, but this President has left us no choice. President Trump abused the enormous powers of his office when he solicited foreign interference for the purpose of helping him in his reelection campaign in 2020. The president betrayed our national security and undermined the security of our elections when he put his own personal political interests ahead of the interests of our country. He tried to cheat to win reelection. And this wasn’t an attack on Vice-President Biden, this was an attack on our democracy. And if we do not hold the President accountable today, we will no longer live in a democracy. We will live in a dictatorship where any future president will be free to abuse their office in order to get reelected.
 So today, every member of this chamber faces a choice whether to do what the Constitution demands and the evidence requires or to turn a blind eye to the President’s grave misconduct. Blind eye to the overwhelming evidence of high crimes and misdemeanors. To my friends on the other side of the aisle, I say this, this is not about making history. This is about holding a lawless president accountable and the way our framers intended. This is the time to put our country over your political party. Do not seek safety in the high grass of a vote against these articles. We are all Americans. Show the American people your devotion to your country is more powerful than your loyalty to a political party.
 United we can defend our democracy from all enemies, foreign and domestic. Divided, we risk losing our democracy. All you have to do is look at the evidence because it will leave you with only one answer. The President of the United States must be impeached. Remember these facts. He tried to cheat, he got caught, he confessed, and then he obstructed the investigation into his misconduct for our democracy, for our Constitution, for the people you represent and for all will who will inherit our country from us. I pray you will do the right thing
Some say this impeachment is about eight lines in a call transcript, but there is so much more. This was about a scheme that lasted months and involve dozens of Trump Administration officials. Look at the evidence, look at the direct evidence. Text messages, emails, calls and meetings. Way back in May, the President told his team, “Talk to Rudy Giuliani.” The President’s message, no White House meeting unless Ukraine helped him in the 2020 election.
 Ambassador Sondland said there was a prerequisite of investigations into the Bidens and announcement of investigations was a deliverable. Ambassador Volker said, “The most important thing for the Ukrainian President to do was to commit to an investigation of the Bidens.” Just before the July 25th call, Volcker told the Ukrainians, “Assuming President Z convinces Trump he will investigate, we will nail down a date for a visit to Washington.” The direct evidence kept coming after the call. More text, more emails, more calls, all with the same message, if Ukraine didn’t announce an investigation into the President’s political rival, then they wouldn’t get the White House meeting that they had been promised and they wouldn’t get the aid that they needed in their war against Russia.
 American presidential power comes from the people through elections. And the Constitution requires that we protect those elections. But when the President abused his power to solicit foreign interference, he was cheating American voters before they even had a chance to vote. President Trump’s actions force us to protect our elections and the Constitution. I urge my colleague to defend the Constitution, support these articles of impeachment and remind the world that in America, no one is above the law.
Mr. Speaker the evidence is clear that President Trump took advantage of Ukraine’s vulnerability and abused the powers of his office to pressure Ukraine to help his reelection campaign. This is the highest of high crimes and president Trump must be held to account
As a member of Homeland security committee, I know firsthand the dangers that foreign interference in our elections present to our democracy and as a member of Congress, it is my sworn duty to ensure that our nation is secure from all threats: foreign and domestic. And Congress has a constitutional job to investigate allegations of misconduct by the executive branch, including the United States president.
 The constitution is the highest law of the land, created a system of checks and balances to prevent the creation of a King. And Congress is a co-equal branch of our nation’s government equal with the presidency, with duties that are given to us by the framers.
 This is a very sad day and I do not take impeachment lightly. Yet I’m here to do my job is a member of Congress.
 Mi pueblo me llamando a Washington para trabajar con todos democratas y republicanos para mejorar nuestra vida en nuestras communidades. Y tristamente, estamos presentes considerando las acciones de nuestro presidente de los Estados Unidos. Y mi voto hoy sera para asegurar que sigueremos haciendo una democracia y no una dictadura. Muchos de nuestoro hijos y hijas han [inaudible] nuestra libertad con su sangre. Nuestra democracia tiene que ser la rencilla de nuestros hijos. Y una democracia existe cuando nadie esta sobre la constitucion y todos somos sujetos a las leyes. Y hoy tambien le pido a Dios que nos de sabiduria y que nos ayude a unir a nuestra patria: los Estados Unidos Americanos. And Today I pray for God for his guidance in uniting our great nation.
I would remind the gentleman that after recovering millions of dollars in ill-gotten gains, the Mueller investigation was actually a net plus for the taxpayers. 

 I want to thank Chairman Nadler and Speaker Pelosi for their leadership and their moral courage. Today, the House of Representatives is debating whether to take the rare step of voting to impeach a president for only the third time in our country’s history. Unfortunately, President Trump has left us no choice. The fact of the matter is that the president abused the power of his office and invited a foreign country to interfere in our elections. In so doing, he undermined the sanctity of the free and fair elections upon which our republic rests. Making matters worse, over the past several months, President Trump and his administration have done everything they can to prevent Congress from uncovering the truth. Let us be clear, in the history of our republic, no president has ever obstructed Congress like this before. During the Watergate investigation, as my colleagues well know, President Nixon’s chief of staff testified before Congress. President Trump’s chief of staff refused. President Nixon’s council testified. President Trump’s refused. White House aids close to President Nixon testified. President Trump refused to allow any aid who may have knowledge relevant to this investigation to testify.
 Simply put, his administration has engaged in a wholesale obstruction of Congress and that is exactly why we’re considering not just one, but two articles of impeachment before the House today. Every member of this body has a responsibility to uphold our constitution, to defend our republic, and when necessary to hold the executive branch accountable. And we are exercising that responsibility today. So with that, and therefore, I will vote yes on both articles because it is what the constitution requires, demands,
the people’s House should be better than this. We should be better than this.
 During the member’s remarks in the judiciary committee, the committee’s impeachment proceedings, he stated, and I quote, “To my Republican colleagues, how do you want to be remembered during this watershed moment in our nation’s history?” Well, Mr. Speaker, it won’t be watching sports on a laptop during official judiciary committee proceedings to impeach a sitting president. It won’t be using expletives to refer to our president calling for his impeachment just hours after being sworn into Congress. It won’t be using the chairmanship of the once-respected intelligence committee to distort the president’s words in order to mislead the American people. And it certainly won’t be using the most serious and solemn powers of Congress to overturn a legitimate national election for political expediency.
 No, Mr. Speaker, my fellow Republican colleagues and I won’t be remembered in history for doing any of those things because we know this is far too great a matter for subversion such as these of our democratic republic. We should all be better than this.
Our country faces a great tragedy and moment of truth. We have witnessed the president of the United States abuse his public office for personal political gain and invite foreign governments to interfere in our elections, putting the integrity of a government of, for, and by the people at great risk. The evidence is overwhelming and clearly shows that President Trump will continue to abuse his office and obstruct Congress if left unchecked.
 The intelligence committee conducted a robust investigation into the president’s misconduct. Members interviewed 12 witnesses in public hearings, totalling over 30 hours, conducted 17 depositions, totaling over 100 hours, examined text messages and emails, reviewed the president’s own words and actions, and published a 300 page report detailing their findings. All of this, despite the fact that under the president’s direction, 12 current and former administration officials refuse to testify, even ignoring subpoenas and 71 document requests, were denied.
 The judiciary committee then reviewed the evidence and concluded the two articles of impeachment, which I support, were warranted. The evidence shows that President Trump is a clear and present danger to our free and fair elections and our national security. The most powerful evidence of this pattern has come from the president himself. In 2016, we heard him when he called on Russia to interfere in our elections. He said, “Russia, if you’re listening.” He then repeated this call for election interference on the July 25th call with the Ukrainian president and we heard him again on the White House lawn further adding China to that mix.
 I stand ready to protect our sacred republic, support these articles of impeachment, and I pray that my colleagues have the courage to do the same. We must uphold our oath of office, defend the constitution and our fragile democracy because no one is above the law. 
George Washington, in his farewell address to the nation, councilled America that the constitution is sacredly obligatory upon all. It is in that spirit that we proceed today.
 Donald Trump pressured a foreign government to target an American citizen for political gain and at the same time, withheld, without justification, $391 million in military aid to a vulnerable Ukraine as part of a scheme to solicit foreign interference in an American election. That is unacceptable. That is unconscionable, that is unconstitutional.
 There are some who cynically argue that the impeachment of this president will further divide an already fractured union. But there is a difference between division and clarification. Slavery once divided the nation, but emancipators rose up to clarify that all men are created equally. Suffrage once divided the nation, but women rose up to clarify that all voices must be heard in our democracy. Jim Crow once divided the nation, but civil rights champions rose up to clarify that all are entitled to equal protection under the law. There is a difference between division and clarification.
 We will hold this president accountable for his stunning abuse of power. We will hold this president accountable for undermining our national security. We will hold this president accountable for corrupting our democracy. We will impeach Donald John Trump. We will clarify that in America no one is above the law.
abuse of power was no vague or weak notion to the framers, it had a very specific meaning: the use of official power to obtain an improper personal benefit while ignoring or injuring the national interest. President Trump has abused his office and must be removed.

Thank you. Mr. Speaker, from our founding, the United States has been a special nation, a city upon a hill. Our values are enshrined in our constitution: liberty, equality, and opportunity. We are a self-governing people where every person is equal before the law. In the United States, we don’t have a king. We choose our leaders. We vote. Generations of Americans have fought and some have died to secure these inalienable rights. The constitution begins “We, the people of the United States.” That’s us. It is not “we, the leaders of Russia, Ukraine or China” or “we, the Democrats” or “we, the Republicans.” It’s we, the people of the United States. And all Americans and only Americans get to have a say in our elections. Donald Trump used the high power of the presidency to pressure a foreign nation to besmirch his perceived primary political opponent. He corrupted our elections and compromised our national security so that he could keep power, not power for the people, power for himself. In 2016, candidate Trump called for foreign interference when he said “Russia, if you are listening.” In 2019, President Trump sought foreign interference when he needed a favor from Ukraine to intervene in the 2020 elections. President Trump attacked and is a continuing threat to our system of free and fair elections.
 Like all of you, I took an oath to support and defend the constitution. I urge my colleagues to abide by that oath and stand up to president Trump’s abuse of power and obstruction of Congress. To my colleagues on both sides of the aisle, I appeal to your patriotism and implore you to defend free and fair elections and preserve the constitution. God save the United States of America. 
Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I was not among those who supported impeachment before Ukraine, but I call for impeachment today because our president is, as we speak, abusing his power and placing himself above the law. President Trump’s attempt to sabotage the 2020 election is a clear and present danger on our democracy. We the people know this, and more Americans support impeachment today than at any time since Richard Nixon’s final weeks in office. We know that it’s wrong to enlist the help of foreigners in interfering in our elections. We know it’s wrong to cheat and we know what’s at stake. It’s not just that our elections were attacked, our elections are under attack right now. The very day the judiciary committee voted out articles of impeachment, President Trump welcomed Rudy Giuliani back to the White House. President Trump is still at it. He’s doubling down. He doesn’t think he can win an election fair and square, so he’s trying to cheat. To ignore these crimes is not just giving the president a pass, it’s giving him a green light. Those who vote against impeachment are not just endorsing president Trump’s past actions, but his future ones as well. If you think I exaggerate in warning that our elections can be undermined, I’d urge you to come down to Georgia, find a black man or woman of a certain age and they’ll tell you the danger is real. And they’ll tell you of brave Americans patriots willing to risk far more than a political career, who marched and struggled and sometimes died so that we could have fair and free elections. We’re not asked to possess even a fraction of their courage, we’re simply called upon today to do what’s right and I’m proud to vote yes on impeachment

Since 2014, the actual voter participation among minorities, African American female, African American male, Hispanic male, and Hispanic female have risen double digits. I’m very proud of what Georgia is doing to get everybody to the poll. I’m glad he chose to highlight it, unfortunately he just highlighted it in the wrong way and I will not yield. 

President Trump said no quid pro quo only after the White House learned of the whistleblower complaint and after the Washington Post had published an article about president’s pressure campaign on Ukraine.

this is a sad day in U.S. history when we have to vote on articles of impeachment because Donald Trump has abused the power of the office of the presidency in his attempt to cheat his way to reelection.
 The facts are uncontested. Fact one, the president abused the power of his office by attempting to shake down the president of a country that has been our ally. Trump wanted President Zelensky of the Ukraine to dig up, to make up dirt on Vice President Biden because he sees him as the biggest threat to his reelection. Fact two, Trump wanted Zelensky to go to before the press and announced an investigation of Biden hoping the mere announcement would create doubt about Biden and strengthen Trump’s hand in the 2020 election. Fact three, Trump obstructed Congress by engaging in a coverup. Trump has refused to comply with congressional subpoenas and has blocked current and past employees from testifying before congressional committees. Congress has a coequal branch of government and one of our central responsibilities is to provide oversight and investigation of the administration; the very checks and balances the framers built into the constitution so no one branch would have unchecked power.
 The House of Representatives has no choice but to vote and pass articles of impeachment because President Trump has abused his power and obstructed the ability of Congress from performing our constitutional duty. The urgency to move forward with articles of impeachment is because there is no reason to believe President Trump won’t continue to abuse the power of his office. No reason to believe he won’t continue to put a split on the scale of his reelection. And in fact, his attorney just returned from the Ukraine and in an article just released in the New Yorker magazine confesses to continuing the effort to interfere in the election.
 In many of our congressional districts, we worry about voter suppression and schemes that purge legitimate voters from participating in the election, or we worry about Russian interference in our election. It is a sad day in America when we have to worry about the Commander in Chief interfering in the election in order to be reelected. Election should be decided by the American.
 … election in order to be reelected. Election should be decided by the American people. I will vote for both articles of impeachment. It is my constitutional duty that fulfill my ultimate office.
I would remind the gentlemen that if President Trump is impeached and removed, the new president will be Mike Pence, not Hillary Clinton. 
I did not have the privilege of being born into this country. My mother brought me from Ecuador looking for freedom and opportunity, but that’s not my story alone. This is a story that I share with so many people that live in Florida’s 26 District and all over the country. We’ve left and experienced corruption in our countries of birth where brutal dictatorships have choked their potential to benefit those in power.
 This president elected by the American people has violated his oath of office and violated the rule of law. The evidence is overwhelming that he withheld military aid approved by Congress and leveraged a White House meeting to extract a political favor from a foreign government. The president actively sought foreign election interference to benefit himself. It is undeniable that he has abused his power and obstructed Congress. He presents a clear and present danger to our democracy.
 As an immigrant, I still get chills because I feel so fortunate to live in this extraordinary country. The genius of American democracy lies in our constitution and the dedication to the rule of law. I want my children and all of our children to feel the same way when they grow up. However, if we sit idly by as cracks begin to appear in our democratic institutions, our children will be in the same situation, like so many of us experienced when we left countries whose leaders destroyed democracy. We in Congress must abide by our oath to defend our constitution. That is my duty as a member of this body. That is my duty as a mother.
Madam Speaker, the president and members of Congress each take an oath to uphold the constitution. When the president abuses his presidential power to upend the constitutional order, we have an obligation to live up to our oath of office.
 We’ve been presented with direct evidence about the president’s actions. They threaten our national security and undermine the integrity of the next election. We now vote on articles of impeachment for abuse of power and contempt of Congress. As a result of that evidence, I’ve worked on presidential impeachments as part of the judiciary committee twice before. This third time brings me no joy.
 President Nixon attempted to corrupt elections. His agents broke into the Democratic Party Headquarters to get a leg up on the election and then, just like President Trump, he tried to cover it up. Then he resigned.
 This is even worse. President Trump not only abused his power to help his reelection, he used a foreign government to do it. He used military aid provided to fight the Russians as leverage solely to benefit his own political campaign. George Washington would be astonished since he warned against the insidious wiles of foreign influence.
 The direct evidence is damning. The president hasn’t offered any evidence to the contrary. These actions constitute grounds for presidential impeachment. What is before us is a serious abuse of power and obstruction of Congress. These abuses strike at the heart of our constitution. The president’s unconstitutional abuse of power, a high crime and misdemeanor, is ongoing. He totally refused to provide any information to Congress related to the impeachment inquiry. It’s our responsibility to use the tool our founders gave us in the constitution to preserve the constitutional order. We must impeach
 one specific concern of the framers was a president who would corrupt our elections, who would abuse the great powers of his office to ensure his own reelection. The impeachment inquiry is not an effort to overturn an election. It is a reaffirmation of the simple truth that in the United States of America, no person, not even the president is above the law, and our democracy cannot allow a duly elected president to abuse the power of his office for personal and political gain. And I now yield two and a half minutes to the gentlelady from Texas Miss Jackson Lee.
 I hate no woman or man. Today the American people should receive clarity and truth. The constitution is the highest law of the land. The president breached and violated the constitution of the United States of America. The president committed constitutional crimes. The president’s crimes are impeachable. John F. Kennedy said, “If this country should ever reach the point where any man or group of men by force or threat of force could defy the commands of our court and constitution, then no law would stand free from doubt and no citizen would be safe from his neighbors.”
 The facts are undisputed. First, President Trump violated his oath of office by placing his personal political interests above the national interest by scheming to coerce Ukraine into investigating a potential election opponent. Second, President Trump betrayed the nation by interest, by withholding the congressionally agreed $391 million to a fragile ally against a very strong foe, Russia. Third, the essential purpose of the scheme concocted by the president was to enlist a foreign country to help in the 2020 election. These acts are constitutional crimes and abuse of power. The truth is the president did ask for a favor. Those were his own words.
 In the July 25th call, no mention of corruption, only the mention of the Bidens. The president was engaged in wrongdoing and is a clear and present danger. He has a pattern and his behavior remains a continuing threat to America’s national security. The truth is that abuse of power does violate the constitution, while both corrupting and cheating our American democracy. His acts betrayed the nation. He must take care to execute laws faithfully. This is the truth.
 Why does the truth matter? Because it matters to the farmer at his or her plow. It matters to the waitress on an early morning shift. It matters to the steel worker building America. It matters to the teacher in a fifth grade class. It matters to a mother kissing off her military recruit going off to war. The constitution must be preserved. Our laws must be honored and respected. The bloodshed and sacrifice of fellow Americans cannot be ignored, trampled on or rejected. And today all actions on the vote taken today must be for no personal gain or grandeur. The bright light of this constitutional democracy has been dimmed because of his acts. The truth is no longer for all. It is for one man, Donald J. Trump. His truth. His way. We must reject that abuse of power, because this is not America. No one is above the law. Alexander Hamilton said, “Impeachment was designed to deal with misconduct of public men and violation of public trust.”The president Donald J Trump
President Trump on January 20th, 2017 raised his hand and swore to preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution. Now we must preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution from him.
 Madam Speaker, I rise today not to disparage and embarrass the President of the United States, but to defend our precious democracy. I speak today, not because I hate this president, but because I love this body, the people’s House.
 I have heard Republicans say, “Why are we rushing to judgment?” This is not a rush to judgment. It’s a rush to justice and we must not delay. Corruption is corrosive. It eats away like acid, and the longer we wait, the more time we allow for this president to do irreparable harm to our country and our democracy. Just last week, Rudy Giuliani was back at it in Ukraine, so please don’t tell us to wait because the corruption continues.
 There’s a famous quote that says, “Politicians worry about the next election. Statesmen worry about the next generation.” Today calls upon us to be statesmen and stateswomen, Democrat, Republican, and Independent. Our election is under attack from within.
 So to my Republican colleagues, many of whom spent a lifetime trying to build a reputation of honesty and courage. I beg you, don’t throw that away for President Trump. He doesn’t deserve it, nor will he appreciate it past the next tweet or next week. My fear, my prediction is that his actions will continue. Madame Speaker. Donald Trump recently said, “I can do anything I want.” He also bragged that he could shoot someone on 5th Avenue and get away with it. Well, he’s shooting holes in our Constitution on Pennsylvania Avenue and our House, the people’s House must defend the Constitution from a domestic enemy to the rule of law, Donald Trump. Because I don’t want generations to come to blame me for letting our democracy die, I therefore rise in favor of impeaching Donald Trump. 
I didn’t come to Congress to impeach the president. Even when he separated babies from their at the border, even when he took money from our troops to build his wall, no, I didn’t call for impeachment because I’m here to make a difference in the lives of my constituents. Yet here we are in the middle of a constitutional crisis.
 As a former judge, I took my responsibility seriously to weigh the evidence and determine if the president’s actions were impeachable. Unfortunately, the evidence and the intelligence and judiciary reports leaves us with no choice but to impeach the president. So I stand on my oath that I have sworn to the Constitution and to the American people. And today I urge my colleagues to stand by their oath too.
 The framers of the Constitution included impeachment as a safeguard against a corrupt president whose misconduct could destroy the very foundations of our country. Donald J. Trump abused his power when he obstructed Congress and ordered government officials not to appear before us. Donald J. Trump corrupted our election when he asked a foreign government to interfere for his personal and political gain. Today, sadly, I ask my colleagues, will you put your party over our country or will you help save our democracy and vote yes on the articles of impeachment before you. I urge you to vote yes.
words matter. We’ve heard many words over the course of these last weeks. Still, what strikes me are the words that are missing from my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, a gaping hole in this conversation, the words they cannot or will not mouth defending a president’s conduct, conduct that threatens our constitutional order.
 And so Speaker, I ask, when is it ever right for a president to coerce a foreign power to interfere in our elections? When is it ever right for a president to intimidate a foreign leader into announcing false investigations into a political rival? When is it ever right for that president to withhold, congressionally appropriated aid to that country at the expense of its national security and our very own? And when is it ever right for a president to block a coequal branch of government from investigating this scheme to cheat an election?
 The answer, of course is never. But that word does not come trippingly from the tongues of those who are making the choice to stand behind a man whose behavior is not worthy of your tortured words.
 By our vote today we are speaking to future presidents and to future generations. We are declaring that we will not tolerate foreign interference in our presidential elections. Americans alone will determine the outcome and we will not permit a president to order the complete defiance of a coequal branch of government. And in the end, regardless of the outcome of this impeachment, the president’s tenure will end and this body and our grandchildren will be left with what we did here today. Ours is a somber generational duty about love of country and lifting a constitution to its gravest protections, but its highest aspirations. Our democracy is a matter of conscience and by voting to safeguard our constitution mine is clear. 
President Trump’s behavior is not new. He has a pattern of engaging in misconduct and then obstructing any investigation into his misconduct to cover up his actions and hide the truth from the American people.

Our nation was founded on certain principles: that government should be of, by, and for the people, that a system of three co-equal branches of government would provide the checks and balances necessary to ensure the people’s voices are heard and that no one is above the law. Today, sadly, we are voting to impeach President Donald John Trump because he has fundamentally broken his covenant with the American people.
 In doing so, we are using the powers the Founding Fathers enshrined in the Constitution. Do we address a president who has violated his oath of office? The evidence is clear and the facts are not in question. President Trump has consistently engaged in a pattern of behavior inconsistent with the rule of law. He has refused to take responsibility for his actions. He has undermined the checks and balances we rely on by instructing Congress at every turn. And most importantly, he has abused his power by using his office to solicit foreign interference in our elections, undermining the will of the people.
 So on this sad day for our nation, I will do what the president has so often failed to do and I will fulfill my oath to support and defend the Constitution and I will vote in favor of impeachment.
the president’s conduct constituted the highest of high crimes against our country. An offense does not have to violate a criminal statute to be impeachable. That was confirmed in President Nixon’s case, and again in President Clinton’s. There is no higher crime than for the President to use the power of his office to corrupt our elections.

This July, President Trump blocked $400 million in congressionally approved aid that Ukraine desperately needed to defend itself against Russia because he needed Ukraine to do him a favor first. He asked the president of Ukraine to launch a public investigation into a political rival. Military aid and other benefits would only come after, but this is not about a single call or a single transcript. This is about a perfect storm, months of activity directly ordered by the President to senior cabinet and political appointees, an orchestrated plan demanding a foreign power interfere in our democracy.
 President Trump betrayed his oath of office. He abused the power of his office for personal and political gain and has refused to cooperate with a coequal branch of government. This is a vote for our Constitution setting the precedent for all future presidents, Democrat or Republican. Donald Trump must be held accountable for his actions. Today we send a clear signal to this president and all future presidents. No one is above the law
The moment our founders anticipated in establishing the power of impeachment has arrived. The evidence is clear. President Trump abused his power by asking a vulnerable foreign leader to investigate both his political rival and a baseless Russian conspiracy theory. While withholding congressionally appropriated defense aid and a coveted White House visit, he then blocked congressional investigation into these abuses. These abuses threatened the integrity of our elections, they corrupt our diplomacy, and they undermine national security. We sometimes regard Constitutional checks and balances as the indestructible underpinnings of our democracy. In fact, they’re not fixed. They’re not indestructible. The president has demonstrated this beyond all doubt. It’s up to the Congress, the first branch of government, to apply the remedy that the Constitution prescribes because the threats to our democracy are real and present. With this vote, we affirm that no one, including the president is above the law.

Thank you, Madam Speaker. Many have lamented that this effort is not bipartisan, but that’s on my Republican colleagues. Republicans have not sought the truth. They have sought to avoid the truth. They have demeaned and insulted witnesses, patriots, warriors, career diplomats who provided evidence against the president. No House Republican has joined us to demand the documents and witnesses that President Trump has refused to produce. Instead of Republican leaders this week have announced that President Trump himself can set the rules of his own trial, and there will be no fact witnesses. Republicans refuse to seek the truth and condemn the abuse of power, or to work with us to prevent this ongoing behavior in the future. And that’s the tragedy of today’s events.
 In our nation’s history, thousands of Americans have gone into battle without reservation to fight for our republic, as they still do today. Many have been gravely injured and some have made the ultimate sacrifice, but today, in contrast for fear of losing an election, my colleagues will not speak up for the rule of law or against presidential abuse of power. Voters may give them a pass, but history will judge them harshly. I will vote for the articles of impeachment. 
The president was given the opportunity to come and testify before the Judiciary Committee to send this counsel, to question witnesses. He declined to do so. 

This is a sad day for our country and for our democracy. The president has abused the powers of his office, betrayed the public trust and undermined America’s national security by pressuring a foreign government to interfere in our elections for his own political gain. In this moment in our history, the Constitution is clear. The remedy for such misconduct by a president is impeachment. I didn’t come here to Congress to impeach a president of the United States, but sadly the president’s misconduct leaves us no choice but to follow the Constitution.
 I have two grandchildren. My granddaughter Kaitlyn is eight and my grandson Colin is four. Someday, a long time from now, they’ll ask me about this day. They’ll ask about the time a president put himself above the law and they’ll want to know what I did to stop him. And I will have an answer for them. Today I vote to uphold the Constitution. I will vote to impeach Donald Trump.
I rise today in support of this resolution. After carefully reviewing all of the evidence and the articles of impeachment before us, it is clear that President Trump abused the power of the presidency and obstructed Congress. I did not come to this conclusion lightly. Impeachment is an extremely serious matter, but no president can be allowed to pressure a foreign country for personal and political gain. No president is above the law. His behavior has jeopardized the integrity of our elections, put our national security at risk, and placed his personal interests above those of the American people. His obstruction has prevented the House from conducting its constitutional duty of oversight of the executive branch.
 By failing to uphold his oath of office, President Trump forces each of us as members of the House of Representatives to uphold ours. I urge my colleagues to do just that and defend our democracy.

 I would remind the gentlemen that the House has passed over 400 bills, 275 bipartisan bills, driving down costs of healthcare and prescription drugs, raising wages, rebuilding infrastructure, taking on corruption and self-dealing in Washington. 80% of these bills are languishing on Senator McConnell’s desk. 

I wish to place on the record that members of Congress swear a solemn oath to protect and defend the Constitution against all enemies, foreign and domestic. And today we fulfill our oath by defending liberty.
 The central figure testing America’s resolve is not here in Washington today. Rather, the closeted villain sits in Moscow at the Kremlin. Vladimir Putin has coordinated murders, election hacking, propaganda, the entrapment of willing fools, and greedy underlings who put their own selfish interests over liberty.
 Putin seeks to sow disarray and destabilize democracies and the NATO Alliance. At Putin’s direction, Russia illegally invaded Ukraine in 2014, and as Ukraine defends Europe’s eastern flank, 14,000 people have been killed at Putin’s hand with over 2 million displaced. Rather than stand up to Putin, President Trump and his minions aided Putin, first in hastening Russian interference in our 2016 elections and then more recently, withholding vital military aid from Ukraine to coerce its interference in our 2020 elections for Mr. Trump’s personal gain.
Might I end by saying onward liberty, vote for the articles of impeachment.

The president’s obstruction is unprecedented and categorical. President Trump claims that the House cannot investigate his misconduct outside of an impeachment inquiry. He defies lawful Congressional subpoenas then and then he sues to block third parties from complying with such subpoenas. Even as he pursues his own interest in court, his administration simultaneously argues that Congress is barred from obtaining judicial enforcement when executive branch officials disregarded subpoenas. So when can the president be held accountable for his wrongdoing? In his mind, never. The Constitution, however, disagrees.

my words are my only remedy today. In spite of the upcoming D.C. statehood vote, we expect to be successful. The people of the District of Columbia have no vote on impeachment or on any other matter on this floor now.
 I spoke on this floor on the impeachment of President Clinton 20 years ago. Unlike the Clinton impeachment, on perjury concerning an affair with an intern Trump’s impeachment turns on sabotage of national security to get himself reelected. Clinton repented. Trump insists that he did nothing wrong. That’s a promise to continue his long pattern of abuse of power and obstruction of Congress.
today is a solemn day in America, a day that none of us hoped for when we came to Congress, but the events of today are something that each of us swore that we were prepared to execute in defense of the Constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign and domestic. This is the oath that binds the men and women of the 116th Congress. As our democracy implores, we defend her. A clear and present threat to American democracy is what brings us here. The architect, a president who asked that a foreign nation interfere in our election. This was our Founding Fathers’ greatest fear. I cast this solemn vote for the many individuals in my district

I cast this solemn vote for the many individuals in my district who entrusted me to be their voice in Congress. They entrusted me to uphold our constitution for them. I vote yes for Sarah in Chicago, Doug in Kankakee, Diane and Flossmoor. Yes, for Kathy and Momence, Katherine in Crete and Jimmy in Park Forest. The facts as simple, the path forward is clear, impeachment is not an option. It is an obligation because no one is above the law.

each of us here took an oath to protect and defend The Constitution of the United States, not the president and not our political party. Today, history will judge did we abide that oath. To extort a foreign country, to investigate your political opponent is an unconstitutional abuse of power. To solicit foreign interference in an American election is an unconstitutional abuse of power. The need to protect against just such abuses prompted our founders to grant the sole power of impeachment to this House. The delicate balance of power that underpins our democracy is threatened when a president disregards the constitution by obstructing Congress’ power to cover up illegal behavior.
 In doing that, President Trump violated his oath. Today, we must put country of a party, conscience over complicity. Today, we must assert no one’s above the law. Today, we are summoned by history to do the right thing
 the facts are clear. The president of the United States with held $400 million in military aid to an ally of the United States and also held back a White House meeting to compel a foreign nation to investigate his political opponent. At the exact time the president was doing this, Ukraine was engaged in a battle for its very existence with one of America’s adversaries, Russia. The president abused his power to persuade a foreign nation to dig up dirt on a political opponent, and that’s the truth. This was quite simply a geopolitical shakedown.
 The president then tried to block Congress from exercising its constitutionally mandated duty to uncover the truth. Every single one of us today faces a stark choice. If we choose to turn a blind eye to put political expediency before The Constitution, then we are complicit in this subversion of democracy. If we do not hold this president accountable, we have failed the people who sent us here And we have advocated our own oath to defend The Constitution. In the United States of America No one is above the law, not even the president.
the facts are uncontestable. The evidence is overwhelming. The president grossly misused the office of president and obstructed Congress and justice requires this impeachment. I feel compelled to respond to the false narrative that Democrats are using this process to overturn an election. You know, I agree. Elections are the appropriate venue for public policy disputes. However, we’re not talking about a public policy dispute. We’re talking about a president who subverted national security by soliciting foreign interference in our elections.
 The exact thing our founding fathers feared and the exact circumstance for which they drafted the impeachment clause. Our democracy, our constitution deserves standing up for, not Donald John Trump and I will leave my colleagues with this last thought as they decide how to cast this historic vote. For what shall it profit a man to gain the whole world only to lose his own soul. 
The facts in this case are as simple as they are tragic. Witness after witness attested to these facts. No one has credibly refuted them. President Trump tried to coerce Ukraine to interfere in the 2020 elections. He used the power of his office for personal political gain. By withholding aid to Ukraine, the president has endangered our ally, Ukraine, and undermined our own national security. And when he got caught, the president attempted to cover up the crime and shut down any investigation by obstructing Congress.
 We have overwhelming evidence that this precedent poses an urgent threat to our elections, to our national security and to the rule of law. Congress must vote to impeach him to protect our constitutional republic. There is no alternative
I take seriously my oath to uphold and defend The Constitution and I do not take today’s proceedings lightly. The founding fathers included the impeachment process in The Constitution to uphold our values and to maintain the checks and balances that are essential to separation of powers and to democracy. They knew way back in 1787 that a president could abuse the power of the office. In fact, they adopted the phrase high crimes and misdemeanors from a phrase that had been used in the English parliament since 1386 intended to cover situations where an official abused his power and included and disobeying an order from the parliament.
 Donald Trump has abused the power of his office by inviting a foreign government to interfere in the US election. And he did this not to help the United States, but to benefit himself. That’s wrong. And it’s an impeachable offense. And then when Congress exercised our constitutional duty to investigate these wrongdoings, he obstructed the investigation every step of the way. That is also wrong. And it’s also an impeachable offense. In our country, no one is above the law, that includes the president of the United States.
In 1787 at the conclusion of the constitutional convention, Benjamin Franklin was asked, do we have a republic or a monarchy? He responded, a republic, if you keep it. Madam Speaker, a republic is a form of government in which the country is considered a public matter, not the private concern or property of the rulers. In a republic, no person is above the law. In a republic, the president may not abuse his power by withholding critical foreign assistance for his own personal political gain, nor may he stopped witnesses from talking. I did not come to Congress to impeach a president, but I did take an oath to keep the republic for our children and our grandchildren.
 We should do nothing less. One day, I will tell my grandson that I stood up for our democracy. I will vote yes to impeach the president.
we do not hate President Trump, but we do know that President Trump will continue to threaten the nation’s security, democracy, and constitutional system if he is allowed to remain in office. That threat is not hypothetical. President Trump has persisted during this impeachment inquiry in soliciting foreign powers to investigate his political opponents. The president steadfastly insists that he did nothing wrong and is free to do it all again. That threatens our next election as well as our constitutional democracy.

the House of Representatives, the people’s House is vested by The constitution with the power of impeachment to balance the power of the presidency. Without this essential duty, the president could exploit his sacred office without any regard for the law. On January 3, 2019, every member of the house swore North to defend The Constitution, and this week we’re being asked to do just that. When allegations arose that the president tried to coerce a foreign government to help undermine the 2020 election, the House carried out its duty to investigate a potential abuse of power.
 But the president refused to cooperate and forbade his administration for doing so obstructing Congress from carrying out our sworn responsibility. If these actions bear no consequence, future presidents may act without constraint and American democracy will be at an end. Therefore compelled by my sworn duty to defend The Constitution, I will vote to impeach this president.

John Adams warned in a letter to Thomas Jefferson that these risks are unavoidable and might sometimes overlap. “You are apprehensive of foreign interference, intrigue, influence, so am I. As long as often as elections happen, the danger of foreign influence recurs.” 

The decision to impeach a President of the United States is of enormous magnitude and utmost significance. There are a few issues that so deeply reflect upon the constitution and the American system of governance. As a senior member of the United States House Foreign Affairs Committee, I’ve spent years trying to promote American values of democracy and the rule of law in other parts of the world, including Eastern Europe.
 Because I have been so steeped in Ukrainian issues for so long, I know how damaging President Trump’s actions were. But the President’s damages does not end there. He has consistently obstructed at every turn of this investigation. This nation’s founding fathers fought to end unaccountable rule. We did not free ourselves from a king to turn the President into a monarch.
 But the camera of history is rolling and I will cast my vote consistent with the principle of democracy, the rule of law, and our constitution for the impeachment of President Donald J. Trump. I do so because I could not look my granddaughter or any member of future generations in the eye having condoned actions that undermine our democratic system. I urge all of my colleagues to do the same. May God bless the United States of America.
my colleagues continue to make the argument that the Ukrainians got the money. Yes, the President got caught, but they got the money. No harm, no foul. It is the equivalent of saying if you’re pulled over by a cop and you attempt to bribe the cop and the cop doesn’t take the money, but arrests you, where’s the crime in that? They didn’t get the money.
 This is what my colleagues would have you accept, that because the President got caught in the act, we must look the other way. But of course, that’s not the way the law works, that’s not the way the constitution works, that’s not the way our oath of office works. Our oath of office requires us to impeach a President that abuses his power, whether he gets away with it or he gets caught. In this case he got caught.
my colleagues continue to make the argument that the Ukrainians got the money. Yes, the President got caught, but they got the money. No harm, no foul. It is the equivalent of saying if you’re pulled over by a cop and you attempt to bribe the cop and the cop doesn’t take the money, but arrests you, where’s the crime in that? They didn’t get the money.
 This is what my colleagues would have you accept, that because the President got caught in the act, we must look the other way. But of course, that’s not the way the law works, that’s not the way the constitution works, that’s not the way our oath of office works. Our oath of office requires us to impeach a President that abuses his power, whether he gets away with it or he gets caught. In this case he got caught.
Years ago, I took my first oath to the country, went to war and fought alongside our nation’s finest men and women. Some of them gave their lives for our nation. Not a day has passed that I don’t reflect on those sacrifices. I learned during that time that our nation is built on sacrifice. We have overcome challenging times because people have decided to put aside their personal interests, their livelihoods, and yes, even give their lives to do what is best for our nation.
 Our founders created a system to ensure we would have no kings or dictators, a system that vested power in the people to ensure that no man or woman is above the law. Generation after generation this system has survived because people have fought for it. Today it is our turn. The President’s abuse of power and scorn for our constitutional checks and balances is unprecedented. Unless we stand up against these abuses, we will set the country on a dangerous new course.
 My oath, my love of our country, and my duty to honor the sacrifices who came before us require me to act. To my colleagues, it is time to put aside our personal and political interests and honor those who have come before us.
I rise today to defend our constitution and our democracy by voting for the two articles of impeachment. The words of our sacred oath define our duty and those words must be kept. Our founder’s primal fear was that powerful members of our government would become, in Hamilton’s words, ” mercenary instruments of foreign corruption.” President Trump abused the powers of the presidency by ignoring and injuring national security and other vital national interests to obtain an improper personal benefit.
 He also betrayed our nation by abusing his high office to enlist a foreign power in corrupting democratic elections. Article II I agree with because it details the obstruction of Congress by the President by directing unprecedented, categorical, and indiscriminate defiance of subpoenas issued by this House of Representatives and abused the powers of the presidency in a manner subversive to the constitution. I believe the constitution is the soul of our nation and by defending it we are saying we will not be soulless.
my colleagues would have the country believe that the President held up the aid to Ukraine because he was concerned about corruption. Of course, there is not a shred of evidence for that. All of the national security experts across all the departments testified that Ukraine met the criteria to receive the aid.

What was the real motivation here? Well, one thing is telling. In 2017, the President had no problem with aid to Ukraine, raised no issue of corruption. In 2018, he had no problem with the military aid for Ukraine. What changed in 2019? Joe Biden announced he was running for president and all of the sudden Donald Trump held up the aid for Ukraine.
 As Ambassador Sondland testified, the President didn’t care about Ukraine. All he cared about was the big stuff that affected him personally. The investigation of the Bidens that Giuliani was pushing.
I rise today in support of House Resolution 755. As a CIA case officer, I used to meet with foreign nationals who were providing vital intelligence to help inform our hardest national security decisions and keep our country safe. These individuals from countries where leaders abused their power and defied the rule of law risked imprisonment and often their very lives in order to provide the United States with information to help us, to inform us.
 But why? It was their belief in the United States, their belief in our country, the longest standing democracy in the world, our country, a beacon of hope in the world, a democratic republic founded a document and the belief in the rule of law and a belief in its people. Today, I am proud to serve in the people’s House representing my hometown and again serving our country that beacon of hope in the world. Today, especially today, I reflect on the founding documents that have set us apart in the world leading people across generations and across the world to risk everything because of their belief in our great nation.
Today, especially today. I affirm my commitment to upholding and protecting the Constitution, the rule of law it defines and the people it governs.

Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately the rules of debate won’t allow me to cite all of the reasons why this President should be impeached. There are many, however, Madam Speaker and members of this House, to quote the late Maya Angelou, “When someone shows you who they are, believe them the first time.” This day was not inevitable, but it was predictable because this President has shown himself time and time again to believe that he is above the law. He has no respect for our constitution or our democracy.
 Based on all that we know about Donald Trump, we could have predicted he would have abused the power of the president by corruptly soliciting the government of Ukraine and the Ukrainian President Zelensky to publicly announce investigations into his political opponent, former Vice President, Joseph R. Biden. This impeachment resolution includes evidence that this President withheld $391 million of taxpayer funds that Congress appropriated for the purpose of providing vital military and security assistance to Ukraine to oppose Russian aggression. Another blatant abuse of power.
 Our investigations revealed that this President advanced a discredited theory promoted by Russia alleging that Ukraine, rather than Russia, interfered in the 2016 United States presidential election for corrupt purposes in pursuit of personal political benefit. Never before in our history have we experienced a President who has so clearly conducted himself in a manner offensive to and subversive of the constitution and directed his cabinet members, executive branch agencies, and other White House officials to defy lawful subpoenas from Congress.
 Was he attempting to hide wrongdoing? It is without question that this President has demonstrated that he will remain a threat to national security and the Constitution if allowed to remain in office and has acted in a manner grossly incompatible with self-governance and the rule of law. Because at every turn, he has shown us who he is.
 It is no secret that this President could have been impeached a long time ago. Today we stand here with an irrefutable case and an indisputable set of facts that this President absolutely abused his power and obstructed Congress. Any other individual who would have been caught conducting themselves in the way this President has would have been prosecuted to the full extent of the law. It is shameful that any members of this house are willing to disregard the Constitution, turn a blind eye to hard facts and ignore a confession from the President himself.
 History will remember those who were willing to speak truth to power. Yes, I called for Trump’s impeachment early. This is our country. Our foremothers and forefathers shed their blood to build and defend this democracy. I refused to have it undermined. I wholeheartedly support this resolution. I’m proud that in the final analysis, justice will have been served in America and Donald Trump will have been impeached.
 I rise today in anger and hope. I’m angry that President Donald Trump has treated his oath in office so disrespectfully that now we must hold him to account. The truth is clear to anyone not deliberately looking away. The President withheld military aid at a White House meeting unless and until a vulnerable Ukrainian president announced a nakedly political investigation.
 It didn’t matter if the Ukrainians uncovered any wrongdoing. The mere announcement of an investigation would damage his political opponent. Mr. Trump didn’t care about stopping corruption in Ukraine, never mentioned the word corruption once in the infamous July 25th call. This was not an attempt to reduce Ukrainian corruption. It was an attempt by Donald J. Trump to aim Ukrainian corruption straight at the heart of the presidential election of 2020. The President knows this, which is why he has not given this Congress a single email, phone record or document. That is not the behavior of a man with nothing to hide. It is simply and undeniably a contempt of this Congress.
 But what makes this impeachment essential is that the President’s abuse of power has not stopped. As we speak, he continues to urge foreign interference in our democracy, beseeching China to investigate the Bidens, sending Rudy Giuliani overseas to chase Russian conspiracy theories. This morning, the President tweeted, “I did nothing wrong,” all caps. He believes it too. He sees nothing wrong with inviting Russian, Ukrainian, or Chinese interference into our election. He did it. He continues to do it and he sees nothing wrong with it. He’ll wake up tomorrow and do it again if we don’t stop him today. Therein lies our hope. I’m proud today to answer the call to defend our democracy and the United States Constitution and urge my colleagues to do the same.
like many of my colleagues, I never ran for Congress wanting or expecting to impeach anybody, let alone the President of the United States. However given the facts, here we are. While some questions remain unanswered, two key facts are clear and compel me to support the articles of impeachment. First, President Trump attempted to pressure a foreign government to help his reelection campaign. Second, the President used the powers of his office again to obstruct a congressional investigation into that wrongdoing.
 The President has falsely claimed he has been denied the chance to defend himself, but at the same time he is preventing the testimony of witnesses with direct knowledge of the events under investigation. If the President were innocent, as he claims, surely these witnesses would be able to testify to that. If there had been no quid pro quo, these witnesses could say that. If aid to Ukraine were not intentionally delayed for improper purposes, they could surely testify to that also. But rather than giving these witnesses the chance to speak, the President has silenced them.
 The President has silenced witnesses at the Defense Department. The President has silenced witnesses at the State Department. The President has silenced witnesses at the White House. He even silenced the loquacious Mick Mulvaney who uttered at a press conference that, “There was a quid pro quo, and get over it.” By choosing to block this testimony, the President is not proving his innocence. He’s just proving he’s afraid of what they have to say. As a wise man once said, “The truth will come to light,” and it has. It is our duty to act on it.
Madam Speaker, in my 30 seconds, my heart aches for our great Republic today. I implore my democratic colleagues in this house, we’re not Republicans or Democrats, we are Americans. This is not the right place. This is not the right procedure. Settle our political differences politically. We owe the American people a great duty to come together. Don’t give the Senate the victory lap. Give the house the victory lap. Vote no to impeach. We owe it to the American people. They want so dearly for us to come together for our great Republic and thank our great President.

the facts and the evidence establish beyond peradventure, that the president abused the power of his office for personal gain and sought to cover up his misconduct by obstructing the Congress. What we do today goes to the heart of the oath we take to support and defend the constitution. These actions are as necessary as they are heartbreaking. It is the President, not any member of this house who has brought us to this sad place. His actions echo in this chamber and like a tin can tied to his leg, will rattle behind him through the pages of history. For in the final analysis, none of us will escape the truth. It will come for us all in this world or the next.
 What is the truth? The President used taxpayer money and official acts to pressure a foreign government to help him win reelection by slandering a fellow American. How do we know this truth? We know because brave Americans, soldiers and public servants came forward to reveal the President’s misconduct. And the President, he continues to undertake an unprecedented cover up, to stonewall the public and obstruct their representatives in Congress. He withholds access to documents and records belonging to the public, that would further establish his mendacity.
 He blocks his advisors and associates from testifying before the public to conceal the wrongs they witnessed. His actions are unworthy of the presidency. Today is about right and wrong and whether we still know the difference. Today we hold the President accountable. If we failed to do so, future Presidents would see corruption as without consequence and there our democracy goes to die. We inherit this Republic from our ancestors and we borrow it from our children. With humility we pray that the history of this day will guide us to a better future for our nation
when I was commissioned as Second Lieutenant in the United States army, I swore an oath to support and defend the constitution. And I’ve done so 13 times in my 35 years of public service, that oath means everything. To serve and fight for our country to protect and promote our values, yet President Trump betrayed his oath. He abused his power, the immense power of the presidency. He threatened our elections by inviting foreign interference. He chose investigating a political rival over defending our national security.
 So today we must use our power, the extraordinary power endowed by our constitution and entrusted by the people, the power to impeach. We must hold President Trump accountable or else we will be complicit in undermining our democracy, our security, and our dignity. His conduct demonstrates his unfitness to serve as commander-in-chief and warrants removal from office. The oath I took as a member of Congress is the same I took as a soldier, an oath that reminds me values matter, duty, honor, and the rule of law matter. To keep my oath to the people I serve in the country I love. Today I will vote to impeach the President of the United States
I’ve heard several of my colleagues in a row now, and it’s interesting to see how very few of them want to address any of the facts of the president’s misconduct, nor do they wish to defend… Nor do they wish… Apparently Madam Speaker, I’ve struck a nerve. Nor do they wish to defend a President who would extort an ally, withhold military aid to help him cheat in an election. They don’t want to defend that conduct, so instead they say, “Oh, Democrats really want to impeach the president, or Democrats don’t like the President.”

But what they can’t say is that this President’s conduct was ethical. What they can’t say was that this President’s conduct was legal. What they can say was this President’s conduct was constitutional. What they can’t say is this President has upheld his oath of office. No, they can’t say that. All they can say is, we don’t like the process or our colleagues are just too happy to impeach or it’s overturning the will of the public when it’s a Republican president.
 Interestingly, my colleagues who supported the impeachment of Bill Clinton did not think it was overturning the will of the people. Apparently this impeachment provision only overturns the will of the people if it’s a Republican president. I would like to give them more credit than that. What is the distinction? Here is the seriousness of the conduct. This remedy was put in the constitution for a reason. It’s not an unconstitutional remedy, it is part of the constitution.
 The only way you can conceive of this remedy as being unconstitutional is if you believe, as the president does, that he is the State, that anything that opposes him opposes the State, is by definition anti-constitutional. But that of course is nonsense. But it is more than nonsense, it is dangerous nonsense.
the people of Washington’s eighth district sent me to Congress to fight for their families and make thoughtful, evidence- based decisions. I did not come to Congress to impeach a president. But evidence is evidence and a balance of powers is fundamental to our democracy. On my first day in office, like everybody else here, I took an oath to uphold the constitution and protect our country. History will judge this moment. Given all the facts before us, impeachment is the only remedy. 

Robert Mueller lays out facts from 2017, that constitute obstruction of justice, but says the president cannot be indicted, only Congress can apply the law to those facts. Many of us have been talking about impeachment since those facts emerged in 2017. Of course today, we focus on more recent crimes. So why did we talk of impeachment back when a Republican led Congress would not act? Why do we impeach today when a Republican led Senate is unlikely to act? First, because it is our constitutional duty no matter what the political consequences. Second…
 … no matter what the political consequences. Second, because it is the most effective tool to chasten and restrain a president who is not naturally feel constrained by the rule of law. I would note that the president’s attempt to extort Ukraine was secretive and furtive, far different from his modus operandi of blazoned threats that we saw in 2017.
 We can only imagine what high crimes and misdemeanors this president would have boldly committed had no one been talking about impeachment then, had he felt immune from impeachment. Today we will demonstrate that the president is not above the law.
I think when the history of this time is written, it will record that when my colleagues found that they lacked the courage to stand up to this unethical president, they consoled themselves by attacking those who did. 

we’re here today because of the failure of so many to cast aside narrow ambition to confront the threat standing before us. Offered the chance to investigate this government together, the president and his party stonewalled and obstructed. We’re here today because they choose comfort over courage and avarice over the republic. This is the ongoing tragedy of our age and it is ongoing.
 The matter is now solely in our hands and belongs to us and us alone. The buck has stopped. Many have evoked the judgment of history as an anecdote to this threat, but the threat to democracy is here today, not tomorrow. We need not, we must not await the verdict of time for Donald Trump’s abuse of power and obstruction. We can offer that verdict right now, and we are.
I rise to defend the Constitution and support these articles of impeachment. The president abused the power of his office by corruptly putting his own political interests ahead of our nation’s security. He blocked congressionally authorized military aid to coerce Ukraine to launch a phony investigation into his political rival. In the months since, he has waged a campaign of absolute obstruction against Congress’s constitutional authority ordering all federal officials to defy subpoenas, and refusing to produce even a single document.
 Madam Speaker, I take no joy in today’s impeachment vote, or that the president’s actions demand this response. This is a sad moment for our nation. Only twice before has the House voted to impeach a president. And never before on accusations of compromising our nation’s security.
 I hope in the Senate, prosecution and defense can call and cross-examine witnesses, and the senators will hear the evidence and make their decisions without prejudice or prejudgment.
 This is a solemn moment, but our system of checks and balances was designed for times like these. I have faith that our Constitution will guide us on the path ahead. 
 It is deeply unfortunate that we have to undertake this impeachment proceeding that unfolds this evening, but the part we play in this process is not optional. Among other things, as the intelligence and judiciary committees have painstakingly documented, the president has indeed abused his authority and he has indeed obstructed justice.
 He threatened to withhold congressionally appropriated US taxpayer dollars from an ally under attack from Russia unless they agree to interfere in our election on his behalf. He has expressed no remorse and he continues to maintain that his behavior was quote, “perfect.” While simultaneously obstructing legitimate congressional oversight and subpoenas and blocking members of his administration from providing truthful testimony to investigators.
 His actions are so far beyond the pale that they have left us with no remaining recourse except impeachment, and so we shall impeach. Because as drastic and as unwelcome as this step is, our country faces even greater long-term risk if we fail to respond. We cannot excuse a president who feels entitled to disregard or break the law with impunity. We are a nation built upon the rule of law, not the law of rulers.
 The Framers gave us their best effort in 1787, and indeed it was an extraordinary one. The Constitution they set down wasn’t perfect, but it founded a republic that has endured and thrived with exceptional stability. As the late Senator Moynihan pointed out, only two countries in the world both existed in 1800 and have never had their governments changed by violence since then. The United States and Britain. Only eight governments have existed since 1914 and have not had their form of government change by force since then. The United States, the United Kingdom, Australia, Canada, New Zealand, South Africa, Sweden, and Switzerland. The innovative system of checks and balances that they constructed with the separation of powers brought about and successfully negotiated a generation of challenges that we have sustained.
 In the very first week that the Framers began crafting this blueprint for America’s freedom and stability, and negotiations indeed immediately started on impeachment. No government in the world at that time exposed the head of government to impeachment, but America was to be different. In the view of the Framers, impeachment is in no way a constitutional crisis, it is a process that the Framers wisely judged that we would sometimes need. This evening is one of those rare moments.
 Madison worried that one day the country would elect a president who quote, “might pervert his administration to a scheme of peculation or oppression. He might betray his trust to foreign powers,” end of quote. George Mason asked the delegates quote, “Shall we see any man to be above justice? And above all, shall that man be above it, then who can commit the most extensive injustice?” end of quote. Of course not, because having just thrown off one king, they would never consent to anoint another one. America firmly rejected the notion of divine right.
Article I of the Constitution prescribes Congress as the first branch of government. And just as importantly, let me quote Speaker Rayburn, who was asked, how many presidents did you serve under? And Speaker Rayburn answered, “None. I served with seven presidents of the United States.”
 Impeachment is reserved for moments of grave danger when the constitutional order becomes dangerously out of balance. Moments like this one. That’s why I will vote to impeach.
this week, Americans are busy finishing up their Christmas shopping mostly for their children, or if they’re lucky enough to have them, their grandchildren. And high school and college students are taking final exams and sweating out the results. That got me to thinking about those who follow and what our obligation is to them. That got me thinking about those who came before and how they might have seen their obligation to us. People like my grandfather, whom our family believes literally was born on the boat on the way over here from Germany. Or my father who fought in World War II against the very people that his grandfather had left.
We are all here today, all of us, because someone before us sacrificed so that they could journey here and build a new life in this unique land. And we are here today because those immigrants and their children were dedicated not just to the land of America, but to the idea. Freedom and opportunity secured by self-government, choosing our own leaders in free and fair elections, and the rule of law under the Constitution.
This idea of America is in peril, brought about so by this president who sought to cheat in an election. A president who puts himself above the law and attacks the bedrock constitutional precept of checks and balances. Yet the question is, can America survive this behavior? What idea will we hand down to those who follow us? And finally, what is our obligation to those who would follow? It is simply this, to do our duty, to defend the Constitution and the values underpinning it by voting yes on the articles of impeachment. 

Madam Speaker, we live in the greatest democracy in the world. I am convinced that the overwhelming majority of Americans are good, decent people who work hard and play by the rules.
 But then we have people who have no respect for the law. People who have little regard for the rules. People who spend a lot of their time trying to figure out how to game the system. Law enforcement officers call them habitual offenders. And the more they get away with, the more likely they are to engage in misconduct.
 Some say it takes courage to hold powerful people accountable, but I see it differently. I see it as a sense of duty, a regular part of my job as a member of Congress. However, habitual offenders usually don’t sneak up on you. They usually telegraph their intentions time and time again.
 On July 27th of 2016 in my home state of Florida, then candidate Trump said, “Russia, if you’re listening, I hope you will be able to find the 30,000 emails,” thereby inviting foreign interference into US elections.
 But then the day after the Special Counsel testified before Congress, the president feeling undeterred and emboldened said, “Call President Zelensky,” and pressured him to help him rig the elections. And chose to hold much needed military aid over our ally’s head until the president’s demands were met.
 Now I served 12 years on the hostage negotiations team, and I know that pressure and demands come in many forms. In this scheme, we had both. I’ve enforced the laws and now I write the laws, but the laws mean nothing if the accused can destroy evidence, stop witnesses from testifying, and blatantly refuse to cooperate. I ask you to name somebody in your community or your family who can do that. I know the president said that he can get away with anything he wants to. I come today to tell you that no he cannot, because no one is above the law, and he shall be held accountable.
today we proclaim that no person is above the law, not even the president of the United States. Donald J. Trump abused the power of his office and violated his oath of office by extorting a new and inexperienced president of a vulnerable foreign ally to dig up dirt on Mr. Trump’s domestic political opponents. He then obstructed the Congress, this equal branch of our government, from undertaking our duty outlined in the Constitution itself to investigate and check these violations. Today, we do nothing more and nothing less than fulfill our duty to our country and to our Constitution.
 Mr. Trump has allowed foreign powers to interfere in our domestic affairs. He has endangered our national security and our democracy itself. For those reasons, we must impeach this president. 
if you live in Lenox Avenue in the village of Harlem in my district, you are not above the law. If you live on Webster Avenue in the Bronx part of my district, you are not above the law. If you live in Washington Heights, the immigrant neighborhood in my district, you are not above the law. So, I submit to you that if you live on 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, you are not above the law and you will be held accountable. President Donald Trump asked Ukrainian President to do us a favor and look into the Bidens. That’s abuse of power. President Trump used the official White House meeting to extort a Ukrainian President. That’s abuse of power. President Trump ordered White House staff to withhold $400 million in aid to the Ukraine. That’s abuse of power. President Trump and his staff denied the five multiple subpoenas from Congress. That’s obstruction of Congress. He blocked witnesses from testifying before this body. That’s obstruction of Congress.  No one is above the law.

as the Chair of the Women’s Veterans Task Force, I see every single day the immense sacrifice our women veterans and all of our nation’s veterans have made in service to our country, in service to our Commander in Chief, our Constitution, to protect our democracy and for every single man, woman and child in our country. When the President of the United States used $400 million meant to protect our national security in order to cheat in our elections, he not only abused his power, he turned his back on the sacrifices of our veterans and their families have made for all that we hold so dear.
 That abuse of power is reprehensible, and it is exactly what impeachment was designed to prevent. We have a solemn duty to protect our Constitution, to protect our democracy and to honor all those who have laid their lives on the line for these United States of America.
make no mistake, we are not impeaching this President. He is impeaching himself. If you are the President and you obstruct justice, try to bribe a foreign leader and threaten national security, you’re going to get impeached. End of story.
I stand before you as a representative of New Mexico, a place where we believe in dignity and respect for all. In Congress, I’ve been fighting for them. We’ve been working to make healthcare more affordable, education accessible and move our country forward for the people. But today, this President had forced us into a serious debate. We’re talking about a President who used the power of the presidency for his own political gain, risking our national security and putting the integrity of the next election at risk.
 It’s a sad day when a President shows complete disrespect for Congress as a co-equal branch of government and for the American people who elected us. We collected the evidence, and the facts are indisputable. We all took an oath to protect and defend our Constitution. We have the solemn responsibility to hold this President accountable because it’s our job. I urge my colleagues to live up to our responsibility and show our fellow Americans that no one, not even the President is above the law. 
 have the honor of serving in this House for over 38 years. I’ve served during six presidencies. I’ve been here through moments of tremendous progress and terrible tragedy. I have seen periods of rank partisanship and patriotic bipartisanship. I’ve seen our two party system work, and I’ve seen it break down. Never in all my years of serving in this great institution that I love and the people of my district did I ever expect to encounter such an obvious wrongdoing by a President of the United States.
 Nor did I expect to witness such a craven rationalization of presidential actions, which have put our national security at risk, undermined the integrity of our elections and defied the constitutional authority of the Congress to conduct oversight. We’ve heard from Republicans that this impeachment really has to do with policy differences or how we feel personally about the President, about his temperament, or that we simply dislike him. Throughout the Trump Presidency, Democrats have resisted pursuing impeachment even as we watched with dismay and disgust out a pattern of wrongdoing. That pattern included ordering federal agencies to lie to the public, firing the FBI director for refusing to end investigations of his campaign, siding with Vladimir Putin against our intelligence agencies, taking funding away from the military to put towards an ineffective border wall and setting policies that have lead the separation of families and caging of children.
 We have to be sure deep disagreements with the policies and actions taken by this President. There’s been a lot of talk about the 63 million people who voted for Mister Trump, little talk about the 65 million people who voted for Hillary Clinton. The policy difference or those votes, this President was elected legitimately.
 let us return to where we began, with the Articles themselves. Article one charges the President of the United States with abusing the power of his office by coercing an ally into cheating in a US election on his behalf. It charges the President of the United States. It charges the President of the United States with abusing his power by withholding official acts, by withholding a White House meeting that the President of Ukraine desperately sought to establish the support of his most important benefactor, the United States, by withholding hundreds of millions of dollars in military aid to a nation at war in order to get that nation to intervene in our election by smearing his opponent. That is the gravamen of the charge in Article One, and what is the defense from my colleagues? Now, I’ve listened carefully to my colleagues for the last eight hours and I have to say it’s been hard for me to follow. But it amounts, I think, when you cut through it all, when you cut through all the sound and the fury signifying nothing, what it really amounts to is this: “Why should we care? Why should we care about what the President did to Ukraine?”
 Well, first of all, we should care about our allies. We should care about Ukraine. We should care about a country struggling to be free and a Democracy. We used to care about Democracy. We used to care about our allies. We used to stand up to Putin and Russia. We used to. I know the party of Ronald Reagan used to. “Why should we care about Ukraine?” But of course it’s about more than Ukraine. It’s about us. It’s about our national security. Their fight is our fight. Their defense is our defense. When Russia remakes the map of Europe for the first time since World War II by dent of military force and Ukraine fights back, it is our fight too. And when the President sacrifices our interests, our national security for his election, he is sacrificing our country for his personal gain. That is the gravamen of Article One.
 Article Two, Article Two charges the President of the United States with obstructing the Congress, with denying the Congress any witness, any document, by telling all of his administration people, “You will not appear. You will ignore a coequal branch of government.” And what is the defense to this from my colleagues? Again, it is, “Why should we care? He is the President of our party. Why should we care if he ignores this Congress?” Well, I remind my friends that he will not be the last President. There will be another President, and you maybe one day, although you do not act like it, you may one day be in the majority, and you will want to hold a President accountable. And what will you say when that President says, “You are a paper tiger. You have no oversight. I can ignore your subpoenas.” What will you say? What will you argue? “Well, no, no. That was different. Then we were in the minority. Then it was a Republican President.” Will that be your argument? Is that how little faith you have in our Democracy and our Constitution? Is that how poorly you defend and uphold that Constitution?
 But finally, let me ask this question that overrides it all: Why should we care about any of this? And I will bring you to one conversation that came to light, because it’s not the most important conversation, but in many ways it is the most revealing. It took place on September 14, in Ukraine, when Ambassador Volker sat down with Andrey Yermak, the top advisor to Zelensky, and he did what he should do. He supported the rule of law and he said, “You, President, you, Andrey Yermak, should not investigate the last President, President Poroshenko, for political reasons. You should not engage in political investigations.” And you know what Yermak said?” “Oh, you mean like you want us to do with the Bidens and the Clintons?” And in that abrupt, brutal retort, we see why we should care. Because what he was saying is, “You, America, have forgotten what it means to uphold the rule of law. You have forgotten what it means to say that no one is above the law. We are a struggling democracy, but even we know better than that.”
 What is at risk here, what is at risk here is the very idea of America. That idea holds that we are a nation of laws, not of men. We are a nation that believes in a rule of law. When we say we uphold the Constitution, we are not talking about a piece of parchment. We’re talking about a beautiful architecture in which ambition is set against ambition, in which no branch of government can dominate another. That is what it means to uphold the Constitution. If you ignore it, if you say, “The President may refuse to comply, may refuse lawful process, may coerce an ally, may cheat in an election because he’s the President of our party,” you do not uphold our Constitution. You do not uphold your oath of office. Well, I will tell you this. I will uphold mine. I will vote to impeach Donald Trump
