We are here today to enter into a debate that should surprise no one. This has not been a surprise and it’s not even something that we would have not thought about. From the very moment that the majority party in this House won, the inevitability that we would be here today was only a matter of what date they would schedule it, nothing else. In fact, how it even began to look even further was on September 24th. The Speaker announced an impeachment inquiry before even seeing the call transcript that we’re going to hear so much about today. It’s not about what this body can do and its constitutional oath, and there’s been a lot of constitutional and founders thrown around and will be all day to day. But there’s one thing that I will mention all along and that is also the founders were very concerned about a partisan impeachment in which politics of the majority who had their strength can do what they want to do, irregardless of any facts.
 In fact, I’ve said it before and I will say it again. I do not believe, no matter what will be said today and even what has been said, this is not a solemn occasion. When you go looking for something for three years, and especially this year since January, you ought to be excited when you found it. But they can’t, because I know what is now happening. It took me last night, but I was thinking about it. Why do we keep calling this a solemn occasion when you’ve been wanting to do this ever since the gentleman was elected. The President came forward and did what he saw fit for the American people, but yet they wanted to impeach him.
 It hit me. Now I know. The reason they wanted to is now they’re realizing what I told them and have been telling them for the last few weeks, that the clock and the calendar are terrible masters. The clock and the calendar are terrible masters. They do not care about anything except getting the time done and the calendar fixed. They do not care about facts. They do not care about time and one day the clock and the calendar will hang along this body in a very detrimental way. How do I know this? Because one of our members, [Mr. Lieb 00:02:00], said on the night she was sworn in, “We’re going to impeach.”
 Well, you know the rest. In May of 2019 Al Green said, “I’m concerned if we don’t impeach this president he will get reelected.” That is probably the most prescient thing said by the majority in the last year, is they said, “We can’t beat him if we don’t impeach him.” There’s a reason behind this impeachment. Even Speaker Pelosi said it will be dangerous to leave it to voters to determine whether President Trump stays in office.
 Really? After we just said the Pledge of Allegiance, we go back to the Speaker’s own words and said it would be dangerous to leave it to the voters. I will tell you right now, Madame Speaker, we on the Republican side have no problem taking our case to the majority and to the people of this country because they elected Donald Trump and it is a matter for the voters, not this house, not in this way, not in the way this is being done. It has trampled everything this House believes in.
 I said it yesterday and I believe it to be this true today. I will fight this on process which has been “deplorable,” to use a word of the majority. It has been awful. The calendar and the clock make it impressive that we actually do it quickly. We don’t care about rules. We don’t care about minority hearing days. We don’t care about giving the opportunity for witnesses to be called because the chairman gets to determine what is relevant. Wow, that’s pretty good. Let the accuser determine what is relevant to the one being accused.
 The people of America see-through this. The people of America understand due process and they understand when it is being trampled in the people’s House. You see it’s also not a matter of process which will be discussed today. It’s a matter of actual facts. I will fight the facts all day long because what we found here today is a President who did not do as being charged. In fact, they had to go to abuse of power, this amorphous term that you’re going to hear many, many arguments about, how that abuse of power, except for one thing. The call itself, the two parties say, “No pressure. Nothing was ever done to get the money.” In fact, they didn’t even know the money was held.
 But there is something that very much bothers me about the facts. There were five meetings, we’ll hear about those today, in which there was never a linkage made. There was one witness that is depended on over 600 times in the majority’s report. That in the end after questioned had to say, “Well, that was my presumption of what was happening.” You see, this is an impeachment based on presumption. This is an impeachment basically also a poll-tested impeachment on what actually sells to the American people.
 Today’s going to be a lot of things. What it is not is fair. What it is not is about the truth. What is true today, and I just heard it just a moment ago in the articles themselves where it said, and the Speaker, I believe actually talked about this, is that the president weakened a foreign leader.
 You know what the truth of the matter is? That has to be the most interesting and deplorable thing that I’ve heard over the last few weeks, is the actual attack by the majority on President Zelensky because they realize their whole crux of their case is that if he was not pressured, their house of cards falls. And by the way, it already fell. But if we can’t show pressure, then we either have to call him a liar, a world leader, or we have to make up names to call him. And that’s exactly what happened in judiciary committee when a member of the majority actually said he’s acting or they’re comparing him to a battered wife. That is below the dignity of this body, to take a world leader and when he doesn’t make your case for you, to belittle him, especially as it’s going to be often said by the majority, that they’re in the middle of a hot war with Russia.
 You see, President Trump actually did give them offensive weapons. President Trump did nothing wrong. We’re going to talk about that all day long today. We went on process and we went on facts. Why? Because the American people will see through this.
 But before I close this first part, I will have to recognize that even the Senate, the minority leader in the Senate recognized that the House did not do their job because he can’t make the case to his own members. So he’s having to ask for witnesses, ask for more time. And even yesterday it was sort of funny. I thought it hilarious that minority leader in the Senate went out and did a press conference and said, “They denied my witnesses. They denied my requests.” Well, welcome to the club, Mr Schumer. That’s exactly what’s happened over here for the last three months.
 So today we’re going to talk a lot about impeachment. We’re going to talk a lot about our President, and we’re going to talk about two articles of impeachment: abuse of power, because they can’t actually pin anything of factual basis on him. The President did nothing wrong in this issue. And then they’re going to talk about obstruction of Congress. You know obstruction of Congress, as I’ve said before, is like petulant children saying we didn’t get our way when we didn’t ask the right way and we didn’t actually go after and try to make a case. You know why, Madame Speaker? The clock and the calendar are terrible masters and the majority will own that problem today because to the clock and the calendar, facts don’t matter. The promises to the base matter. And today is a promise kept for the majority, not a surprise of fact. 

before I begin my formal remarks, in closing, I want to say one thing for the record. I have great respect for all my friends on the other side of the aisle, and I am sure they’re voting their convictions. So when I vote mine, please don’t imply I’m doing it for my political party. I’m doing it because it’s what I believe is right. And I do believe I can defend both the president and the constitution of the United States, and I think that’s exactly what I am doing. Madam Speaker, I cannot oppose this rule strongly enough. The process we saw leading up to it today was a complete charade. It was a closed process and unfair process and a rushed process, and it could only have ever had one logical, predetermined ending.
 Throughout it all, the majority trampled on minority rights. They refused to call witnesses with relevant first-hand knowledge. They relied on hearsay news reports to make their case. They denied Republicans the right to hold a minority hearing day. And they refused the president of the United States his due process rights in the committee that was actually conducting the impeachment process and investigating him. And in the end, what was the result? Articles of impeachment based on an event that never happened. A purported quid pro quo that did not exist. Aid that was allegedly withheld that in reality was never withheld at all. And a narrative of intent based on nothing more than fantasy.
 Madam Speaker, we deserve better than this. Impeachment is the most consequential act the House of Representatives can undertake. It must not and cannot be based on a flawed process. It cannot come at the expense of minority rights or due process to the accused. It cannot be based on a vendetta against the president that the majority has pursued since the day it was elected. And it cannot be based on nothing more than spin and hearsay. I oppose this rule and I oppose the flawed and unfair process.
 Madam Speaker, it’s a very solemn vote that all of us will cast. I want to end by number one thanking my good friend, the chairman of the Rules Committee for conducting the kind of hearing he conducted yesterday. But I also want to underscore again, we are very violently opposed to the process, very strongly opposed to the rule, think this is a charade and been very unfair. So Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote no on the previous question, no on the rule, no on the underlying measure, 
 I thank my good friend, the gentleman from Massachusetts, Chairman McGovern for yielding me the customary 30 minutes. I yield myself such time as I may consume.
 Thank you, Madam speaker. Well, Madam speaker today is a very sad day for all of us. For me personally, for the Rules Committee, the entire House of Representatives, and most importantly for the American people. For the second time in my life, the House of Representatives will be voting to impeach a President of the United States. But unlike in 1998, the decision to have this vote is not the result of a bipartisan process, nor an open or fair process. Instead, it’s going to be a deeply partisan vote coming at the end of an unfair and rushed process prescribed solely by Democrats to ensure a predetermined result. Impeachment of a president is one of the most consequential acts the House of Representatives can undertake, and it should only be done after the fullest and most careful consideration.
 Yet today, after a truncated investigation that denied the president due process, cherry-picked evidence and witness testimony to fit their narrative and trampled on Republican’s minority rights. Democrats in the House are pressing forward with a partisan impeachment vote. Doing so contradicts Speaker Pelosi’s own words back in March of this year when she said that, “An impeachment is so divisive to the country that unless there’s something so compelling and overwhelming and bi-partisan, I don’t think we should go down that path because it divides the country.” But if we’re really being honest, Democrats have been searching for a reason to impeach President Trump since the day he was elected. In December of 2017, a current member of the majority forced to vote to impeach the President. And even then, long before there was an even an impeachment investigation, 58 Democrats voted to impeach the President. And those members have only grown since then, to the point where the majority is now pushing forward with a final vote on impeachment, heedless of where it takes the country, and regardless of whether or not they’ve proven their case.
 And if my colleagues in the majority believe they have proven their case, let me be clear, they have not. The entire premise of these articles of impeachment rests on a pause placed on Ukrainian security assistant. A pause of 55 days. The majority has spun creative narratives as to the meaning and the motive of this pause, alleging the President demanded a, “quid pro quo.” But with no factual evidence to back it up. Security aid to the Ukraine was released. The administration did so without the Ukraine ever initiating an investigation into anyone or anything. It’s even more startling to me that the majority wants to move forward with this resolution, given how substantially flawed and procedurally defective the entire process has been. The Judiciary Committee, which drafted these articles of impeachment engaged in an abbreviated process, hearing from no witnesses with first-hand knowledge of the events in question.
 They did not conduct their own investigation, and only held two hearings on this topic before drafting the articles. One was staff and one with constitutional law scholars. That’s hardly the type of lengthy and serious consideration a topic as grave as impeachment demands. The committee actually charged with an impeachment investigation was the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, not the Judiciary Committee. But that committee, too, follow a primarily closed process. Republicans were denied the right to call witnesses or subpoena documents, and the President was denied the right to representation in the committee’s hearings. Without respecting minority rights and without respecting due process rights of the President, how can anyone consider this a fair process? Madam speaker, it gets worse. The articles of impeachment we are considering today are based on the Shift Report, the final document produced by the Intelligence Committee and transmitted to the Judiciary Committee.
 But the shift report includes unsubstantiated allegations. It includes, in some cases, news reports as the only evidence supporting so-called factual assertions, and it includes at least 54 different hearsay statements as assertions of evidence without any first-hand information from witnesses to corroborate those statements. The author of the report, Chairman Schiff, was never questioned by the Judiciary Committee, and he refused to sit for questions, or to explain how his committee conducted its investigation. In fact, during the staff presentation of evidence that the Judiciary Committee, ranking member Collins asked how the investigation was conducted that resulted in the drafting of the Shift Report. But he never received an answer. During the Rules Committee, consideration of House Resolution 755, there were numerous times when the members on both sides of the aisle posed questions to our witnesses. Questions they could not answer because they sit on the Judiciary Committee, and were not the author of the report that brought about H Res 755.
 The author has never appeared before members of the minority to explain a single thing in the report, or to provide factual information supporting the many assertions it contains. Madam Speaker, this is no way to go about impeaching the President of the United States. The articles before us are based on very limited information. They are based on hearsay, on news reports, and on other unsupported allegations. They’re based on a report written by a member of Congress who refused to answer questions about it. And I do not believe the allegations, which are subject to interpretation, actually rise to the level of an impeachable offense. To make matters worse, when Republicans attempted to exercise one of their rights under House rules, they were shut down by Chairman Nadler under clause 2-J-1 of Rule 11, the minority is allowed to demand a minority hearing day. On December 4th, the Republicans on the Judiciary Committee properly exercised that right, and transmitted a demand to Chairman Nadler for a hearing day, at which the minority could call their own witnesses.
 And to be clear, Madam Speaker, a minority hearing day is not subject to the Chair’s discretion. It is a right, and Republicans on the Judiciary Committee properly demanded the exercise of that right. And yet, Chairman Nadler declined to allow a minority hearing day to be held before the voting of these articles. I think we can all agree that it would have been better for the institution and for the American people to allow all voices to be heard, and all witnesses to be questioned. Before 60, the resolution setting up the official impeachment inquiry, less than two months ago, I warned that house that what the majority was doing was setting up a closed, unfair process that could only have one outcome. And today, we’re seeing the end result of this closed and unfair process. A quick rush to judgment forced through, not one, but two committees in short order with minority rights trampled, witnesses left unquestioned, and due process ignored.
 It is also disappointing that members are not being given more time to debate this issue on the floor. Last night at Rules Committee, I offered an amendment to double the amount of floor time debate, from six to 12 hours. This would have allowed for roughly the same amount of debate time used in the Clinton impeachment, and it would have ensured that all members could have the opportunity to speak on the floor.
 Unfortunately, that amendment was not accepted. While I know my friend Chairman McGovern did the best he could. I do think it’s ironic that when all is said and done, the 13 members of the Rules Committee spent more time discussing H Res 755 in committee yesterday, then we will spend debating it on the House floor for every member today. I think that’s a disservice to the members of this body, and to the American people.
 Madam Speaker, we deserve better than a flawed process that led to this flawed outcome. The House of Representatives deserves better than that. The President certainly deserves better than that. More importantly, the American people deserve better than what we’re doing here today. I oppose proceeding any further. I oppose the rule. I oppose this limited and unfair process, and I certainly oppose impeaching the President of the United States. With that, I urge opposition to the rule.
And for those who think this started with this investigation, what nonsense. You’ve been trying to impeach this president since before he was sworn into office. Some of you introduced articles of impeachment before he was sworn into office. This isn’t something you’re approaching prayerfully and mournfully and sadly. “Oh, the chaos. Oh, the sadness.” This is something you’re gleeful about, and you’ve been trying to do it for three years, and it’s very clear. You don’t have to go back and Google very much to find out that is the absolute truth. I could give you pages of examples of things you have said for three years about this president. That’s what this is about.
 And if you think … if this impeachment is successful, the next president, I promise you, is going to be impeached and the next president after that. If you set this bar as being impeachable, every president in our future will be impeached. It erodes our republic in ways that our founding fathers recognize. They got it right. High crimes and misdemeanors, other than that, settle it at the ballot box. I look forward to that day. Let the American people decide. I would remind the gentlemen that if President Trump is impeached and removed, the new president will be Mike Pence, not Hillary Clinton.
I think my colleague from Georgia and friend, Mr. Collins. Madam Speaker, I rise today in opposition not only to these articles of impeachment, but in strong opposition to the process that has brought us to this point. Our Constitution and Bill of Rights are all about process. Our founders knew that a government without constraints could accuse anyone of any crime at any time even without compelling evidence. That’s why the 5th and the 14th Amendments established a bedrock principle of innocent until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. But on November the 14th Speaker Pelosi informed the press that the president should prove his innocence when she stated, “Mr. President, if you have anything that shows your innocence, then he should make that known.”
 The Constitution also guarantees that the accused can call witnesses to testify on their behalf, but the Republicans and the president were continually denied that right throughout this process. The 6th Amendment guarantees the right of the defendant to face their accuser, but not only have the Democrats prohibited Republicans and the president from questioning the so-called whistleblower, his identity has been kept secret. Before you take this historic vote today, one week before Christmas, I want you to keep this in mind. When Jesus was falsely accused of treason, Pontius Pilate gave Jesus the opportunity to face His accusers. During that sham trial, Pontius Pilate afforded more rights to Jesus than the Democrats have afforded this president in this process.
… Including the president may be impeached for treason, bribery, or other high crimes and misdemeanors. Unlike the Nixon and Clinton cases, there are no allegations that the president has committed a crime. We’ve had almost three years of nonstop investigations. We’ve had the Mueller report, we’ve had the Schiff investigation, we’ve had the Nadler investigation, and at no time is there any evidence that indicates that Donald J. Trump violated any criminal statute of the United States.
 So why are we here? We’re here because the majority caucus, the Democratic caucus, has been hijacked by the radical left. They have wanted to reverse the course of the 2016 election ever since Donald J. Trump won that election. So let’s look at these two phony articles of impeachment. First of all, abuse of power. The phone call in question had the presidents say, “Our country has been through a lot. I want you to do us a favor.” Not me a favor, us a favor. And there he was referring to our country, the United States of America, not a personal, political gain. He was not afraid to let this transcript go public. And he released a transcript almost immediately after the call.
 Now the second article impeachment obstruction of Congress basically says that unless the president gives us everything we want and when we want it, then he’s committed an impeachable offense. That’s a bunch of bunk. The president has certain individual and privileges by virtue of his office. Whenever there’s been a dispute between the executive and legislative branches here bere, they’ve gone to court. And the Supreme court a couple of weeks ago said they would take jurisdiction over deciding whether the president had to comply with one subpoena relating to his tax returns.
 Now here the Democrats have been bent to impeach the president of the United States before the court decides this. And this means that there is a rush job to do this. And why is there because they want to influence the 2020 elections. And they spent three years doing it. They spent millions of taxpayers dollars, including the Mueller report, putting together this impeachment. And they also have had this Congress wrapped around the impeachment and not doing their jobs until the dam broke this week. Stop this charade. Vote no, and I yield back.
Thank the gentleman from Georgia. Mr. Speaker, the founders of this country warned us against the single party impeachment because they feared it would bitterly and perhaps irreparably divide our nation. The truth is, in the 243 years of this Republic, there has never been a single party, fraudulent impeachment process like the one being used today. Our Democrat colleagues have weaponized the impeachment provision of the Constitution to nullify the votes of 63 million Americans who elected President Donald J. Trump.
 This is not about a phone call, or Ukraine, or even his use of the executive privilege. You have to remember that 95 of the Democrats on this floor today voted to impeach Donald Trump before the July 25th phone call ever happened between President Trump and President Zelensky. And not only is this a single party impeachment, it’s also evidence free. After all their Herculean efforts, they could only come up with two short articles of impeachment.
 On the first the Democrats know there is zero direct evidence in this record of these proceedings to show that President Trump engaged in any abuse of power. As you’ll hear today, their entire case is based on hearsay, speculation and conjecture and there’s not a single fact witness that can provide testimony to support their baseless allegations.
 The Democrat’s second claim is that President Trump obstructed Congress by simply doing what virtually every other president in the modern era has also done and that is to assert, Mr. Chairman, a legitimate executive privilege, which protects the separation of powers. And you know what, if they disagreed with that, the Democrats could and should have just simply gone a few blocks away to a federal court to get an expedited court order compelling the extra documents and information they requested. That’s what’s always been done in the past, but they didn’t do that here because these Democrats don’t have time for it.
 They are trying to meet their own arbitrary, completely reckless and Machiavellian timeline to take down a president that they loath. The real abuse of power here is on the part of the House Democrats. If they has feverishly produced and pursued this impeachment 20 times faster than the impeachment investigation of Bill Clinton. They’ve tried to reach their predetermined political outcome and along the way they steamrolled over constitutionally guaranteed due process House rules and the federal rules of civil procedure. This must fail for the country.
I’ll also remind my chairman that impeachable has never been as a political weapon in between elections when you can’t win the next one
Thank you Mr. Speaker. Other than authorizing an act of war, impeachment is the gravest item that we as Congress can consider. The decision to move forward with impeachment of the United States President is so consequential that it’s only been done three times previously in our nation’s history all based on legitimate evidence of criminal behavior. Unfortunately, many of my colleagues have diminished what should be a solemn and gray proceeding into an absolute political circus simply because they don’t like the man occupying the White House. And the Democrats had been intent on oppressing the President since the day he took office.
 Their actions are clearly motivated by hatred for President Trump. This impeachment vote today is the next step in their long-held plan to remove him from office. The partisan impeachment investigation run by the House Intelligence Committee was unnecessarily held behind closed doors in a room designed to share classified information. Nothing classified was shared during these meetings, but the result of this decision was that most members of Congress and all Americans were blocked from hearing the facts for themselves. Chairman Schiff repeatedly withheld crucial information from the Republicans, including the ability for anyone but himself and his staff to speak with a whistleblower at the center of the investigation. He was even called out by liberal media outlets for spreading misinformation and falsehoods throughout the impeachment process. The public hearings were complete disregard for the House rules and the decades of precedent.
 Republicans were not allowed to call witnesses or to make basic parliamentary motions. In fact, the only witnesses allowed to testify publicly were those who fit neatly within the Democrats’ predetermined narrative. Most importantly, we have not been presented any real evidence that proves a president is guilty of high crimes and misdemeanors as required by the Constitution to remove a duly elected president. If there were criminal activity, as many of my Democrat colleagues claim, then why are there no crimes listed in the articles of impeachment? We are forever weakened this body by turning impeachment into a political weapon. This impeachment scheme is nothing more than an attempt to conduct a taxpayer funded opposition research and damage the President’s electability heading into 2020. The American people rush see right through this charade and are fed up. It is time for this madness to stop and for us to get back to the important work the American people sent us here to do. And I yield back.
I thank my colleague. In 2016, 63 million Americans went to the polls and elected Donald Trump President of the United States. House. Democrats have been trying to overturn the election ever since. In fact, they’ve tried five additional times to the one where that’s before us to impeach the president, including the vote in May of 2017, just five months into his term. In January of this year, House Democrats took control of this chamber and they’re faced with a choice. They could use the tools of the majority to pursue legitimate priorities of the American people, policies that can impact their lives or they can use the tools to undo the 2016 election. They made their choice.
 Since then, House Democrats have issued more subpoenas than bills have been signed into law. That tells us all we need to know about this Congress and that party. Rather than launch a legitimate investigation, Democrats turned to focus groups to workshop their language to see if they could sell this to the American people and American people have rejected it. Instead of negotiating with the executive branch, for instance, and allowing the courts to resolve any legitimate disputes, House Democrats rushed an impeachment vote. So here we are, 12 weeks later, voting whether to impeach the president based off the thinnest record in modern history. It’s no surprise that the Senate is all already asking for additional witnesses and more documents and real evidence. The body of evidence is weak and woefully insufficient for impeachment. And with that, I yield back on this sad day for this institution.
I rise in opposition of HR 755. Today is a disappointing day. It is the day my colleagues from across the aisle cast the vote that they have spent the last three years obsessing over. The vote to impeach our duly elected president. There are two charges claimed by House Democrats and there is zero cause for either. While President Trump has led, our country has thrived and Washington liberals have failed. Despite the commitment of many of our colleagues to obstruct the Trump administration’s agenda at every turn, our country continues to succeed.
 In this body. However, we have not been able to deliver on what Americans want and need. We still have not finished securing our border. The opioid epidemic still rages in our communities. Our infrastructure is still in dire need of an overhaul. And we still have not reached a bipartisan resolution on drug pricing. If Congress hadn’t spent the last year stuck in a divisive, ugly, partisan impeachment debacle, think of what we could have done, the lives that could have been saved, the communities that could have been improved, the crisis on our southern border ended, and the positive work that we should do for our country, but we didn’t. All because of divisive, political theatrics. Congress can do better than this and America deserves better.
 I rise today in complete and total support of President Trump. The matter before the House today is based solely on a fundamental hatred of our president. It’s a sham, a witch hunt and is tantamount to a coup against the duly elected president of the United States. This is a sad day for our nation. When one political party, along with their cohorts, and the deep state and the mainstream media, try to hijack our Constitution. The Democrat majority has irresponsibly turned the impeachment process into a political weapon, something that Republicans refuse to do. When our base was calling for the impeachment of President Obama. It is well past time for the House to move beyond this hoax and put our nation first.
 That’s exactly what President Trump is doing. The United States has record low unemployment, historic performance in the stock market. President Trump is re-writing failed trade deals of the past to put America first. He’s rebuilding our military. He helped create the space force and the list goes on. I implore my colleagues to end the spectacle now. 
 would remind this whole body that it is more than eight lines. In fact, there’s four facts, there’s no pressure, there’s no conditionality, they did nothing to get it and they got the money.

I rise in opposition to this political effort to remove President Trump from office. I’m not surprised this day has come, but I am disappointed. Disappointed because impeachment is one of the most consequential decisions that we can make in this body. And this impeachment is based purely on partisan motives. Speaker Polosi said, “We shouldn’t go down this path unless there was something compelling, overwhelming, and bipartisan because of how divisive it would be.” Unfortunately, it’s clear the majority has had laser focus on one thing for three years, impeaching the president. The majority’s failed to deliver for the American people. They failed to pass a budget on time, failed to pass the spending bills on time, and failed to deliver bipartisan solutions that will actually help improve the lives of Americans. But the American people see through this sad charade for what it is, an attempt to undo the 2016 election based on hearsay and opinion, not fact. The transcript of the call showed no conditions were placed on the aid.
 President Trump and Zelensky have said there was no pressure and Ukraine received the aid without taking any actions. The constitution is clear. The president may only be impeached for committing treason, bribery, or high crimes and misdemeanors. Nowhere in the two articles of impeachment brought today, does it argue that the President has committed treason, bribery, or any crime under the law. This is not overwhelming. It is not compelling. It is not bipartisan, but the Speaker was right in one way. This is incredibly divisive and has lowered the bar for what future presidents will face. I strongly oppose the articles before us today, and I hope that we will finally move past this nightmare and get to work to deliver results for the American people. I yield back.
 I rise today in opposition to the Democrats’ sham process, which makes a mockery of the rules of the House and is frankly dangerous to this country. Since day one, the Democrats have made it clear that they wanted to move towards impeachment well before any of the accusations took place. What Democrats unfortunately don’t recognize is the damage that this will cause for our political institutions and America’s trust for years to come.
 Every American should be concerned that Speaker Polosi doesn’t trust our citizens to let them decide who should lead our great country. This impeachment process isn’t focused on strengthening and protecting our political foundations, but rather shaping public opinion. I ask you, is it worth that?
 Not only is the process alarming, but it’s wasting taxpayers’ dollars and valuable time that elected officials could be using to move our country forward. That includes securing our borders, addressing student loan debt, our bringing down the cost of healthcare and prescription drugs.
 I urge all of my colleagues while considering these articles to ask themselves whether this is truly being done for the good of the country. 
Wow, I’d never thought that a Department of Justice investigation was used as a money… A revenue plot. But I guess one thing is true, it was a loser for the minority in a net profit situation. 

Thank you, gentleman for yielding. Mr. Speaker, in 2016, Vladimir Putin and his cronies waged a war on our elections with the goal of The goal of sowing discord and division in America. Do you think he’s been successful?
Somewhere in Russia right now Putin is laughing at us today. The majority has given him exactly what he wants: a divided America with a pure partisan politics, with nasty political rhetoric at an all time high, and some already across the aisle are discrediting the results of future elections. Already! Seems to many Americans that for the past three years, the House majority has been carrying out the wishes of the Kremlin. And the sad part is the Democrats have vowed to continue their sham investigations even after today’s vote. Impeaching a duly elected president in a purely partisan manner, with no crimes to show for it, not one element of a crime defined, disgraces the integrity of our democracy. Now is the time to end the partisan politics come together and put America first. I urge this body to vote “no” to partisan impeachment.
Mr. Speaker, nullifying a national election requires an overwhelming case of high crimes supported by indisputable evidence that the vast majority of the nation finds compelling. Now, article one’s a made up crime called “abuse of office.” It does not charge that the president broke any law, but that Congress doesn’t like the way he lawfully discharged his constitutional duties. This would reduce the presidency to that of a minister serving at the pleasure of Congress, destroying the separation of powers at the heart of our constitution.
 Article two is another made up crime called obstruction of Congress. It means the president sought to defend his constitutional rights and those of his office. It removes the judiciary from our constitution and places Congress alone in the position of defining the limits of its own powers relative to the president.
 Our Bill of Rights guarantees every American the right to confront their accuser, to call witnesses in their defense, to be protected from hearsay and to defend these rights in court. The Democrats have trampled them all in their stampede to impeach. Even in this kangaroo court, the Democrats handpicked witnesses, provided no firsthand knowledge the president leaked aid to action. In fact, two witnesses provided firsthand knowledge that he specifically ordered no quid pro quo.
 Any case, the charge, no actual crime, and offered no legally admissible evidence would be laughed out of court in a heartbeat. That’s the case before us today. It would redefine the grounds for impeachment in such a way that assures that it will become a constant presence in our national life. Now we know just how reckless is the Democrats’ chant of “resist by any means necessary.” This is a stunning abuse of power and a shameless travesty of justice that will stay in the reputations of those responsible for generations to come.

 our elections should be free and fair, I do believe that with all my heart. Except it seems like in this case, this impeachment is based on the fact that the speaker who said in this month or last month, it would be dangerous to leave it to the voters to determine if Mr. Trump stays in office. 

I have descended into the belly of the beast. I’ve witnessed a terror within and I rise committed to oppose the insidious forces which threaten our republic. America’s being severely injured by this betrayal, by this unjust and weaponized impeachment brought upon us by the same socialist who threatened unborn life in the womb, who threatened first amendment rights of conservatives, who threatened second amendment protections of every American patriot, and who have long ago determined that they would organize and conspire to overthrow President Trump.
 We don’t face this horror because the Democrats have all of a sudden become constitutionalist. We’re not being devoured from within because of some surreal assertion of the socialists’ newfound love for the very flag that they trod upon. We face this horror because of this map. This is what the Democrats fear. They fear the true will of we, the people. They are deep establishment DC. They fear. They call this Republican map, fly over country. They call us deplorables. They fear our faith, they fear our strength, they fear our unity, they fear our vote, and they fear our president.
 We will never surrender our nation to a career establishment, DC politicians and bureaucrats. Our Republic shall survive this threat from within. American Patriots shall prevail.
back home, people refer to Capitol Hill as a bubble. They are right. It’s as if we are completely detached from what’s going on in communities across America. Many here don’t hear or listen to what people are saying and many here as well think they know better than the people we serve.

Our communities are benefiting greatly from president Trump’s agenda, a booming economy, secure border, better trade deals, and a stronger military. Unfortunately, inside the halls of Congress, Democrats’ obsession with impeachment is all-consuming. Is this how Democrat leadership chooses to represent the people of America? By nullifying the results of the 2016 election, disregarding the will of the American people, and doing everything in their power to prevent the president and this Congress from doing the job we were elected to do? After three years of trying, months of unfair, politically motivated impeachment proceedings, Democrats have delivered two weak articles of impeachment. Abuse of power? Not according to the Ukraine. President Zelensky confirmed many times that there was no quid pro quo, no action taken, and significant military aid was delivered without anything in return. Of course, his words have been conveniently dismissed. Obstruction of Congress? Is this the new standard? If this is the new standard, then every president since Jimmy Carter and every president moving forward would and will be impeached.
 Let me be clear, it is an honor to serve in the United States House of Representatives, but today I am distraught. Today, Democrats will disregard the will of the American people and vote to impeach the duly elected president of the United States. Which should be equally troubling is that this has eroded if not wiped out the trust the American people have in the 116th Congress,
I discovered something recently. It’s shocking. I know, but it turns out that some people don’t like President Trump. They think he’s loud. They think he can be arrogant. They think sometimes he says bad words and sometimes he’s rude to people and to their sensitive natures, they’ve been offended. I get that. I really do.
 But let’s be clear. This vote, this day has nothing to do with Ukraine. It has nothing to do with abuse of power. It has nothing to do with obstruction of Congress. And this vote, this day is about one thing and one thing only, they hate this president. They hate those of us who voted for him. They think we’re stupid. They think we made a mistake. They think Hillary Clinton should be the president and they want to fix that. That’s what this about is about. They want to take away my vote and throw it in the trash. They want to take away my president and delegitimize him so that he can not be reelected. That’s what this vote is about.
 And for those who think this started with this investigation, what nonsense. You’ve been tried to impeach this president since before he was sworn into office. Some of you introduced articles of impeachment before he was sworn into office. This isn’t something you’re approaching prayerfully and mournfully and sadly. Oh, the chaos. Oh, the sadness. This is something you’re gleeful about and you’ve been trying to do it for three years and it’s very clear. You don’t have to go back and Google very much to find out that is the absolute truth. I could give you pages of examples of things you have said for three years about this president. That’s what this is about.
 And if you think if this impeachment is successful, the next president, I promise you is going to be impeached and the next president after that. If you set this bar as being impeachable, every president in our future will be impeached. It erodes our Republic in ways that our founding fathers recognized they got it right. High crimes and misdemeanors. Other than that, settle it at the ballot box. I look forward to that day.
I rise today is strong opposition to the articles of impeachment against President Trump. As Chairman Nadler must recall exactly 21 years ago today, I spoke on this floor in opposition, the impeachment of President Clinton. And 21 years ago tomorrow I voted against all four articles of impeachment against President Clinton.
 Today’s articles of impeachment against President Trump own assault on our constitution and the American people to impeach a president for a phone call, which no crime is charged, nevermind a high crime, and asserting his constitutional prerogatives as president is a clear abuse of power by the Congress. It sets a dangerous precedent of weaponizing impeachment to undo the solid decision of the American people. Madame Speaker, President Trump and I grew up in the same borough of New York City and today I am proud to stand with President Trump and urge a no vote on these horrible acts of impeachment, these articles of impeachment. I yield back to balance my time and strongly urge a no vote.
of the Washington Post headlined the story immediately following President Trump taking the oath of office stating the campaign to impeach President Trump has begun. How accurate they were. Here we are almost three years later and what we are witnessing today is unprecedented in American history, a very partisan based impeachment with no facts that warrant it. This is an impeachment based on hearsay and speculation, rooted in a deep seated hatred for a man for whom many of my colleagues on the other side detest, not all, but many. Nowhere in the constitution does it say that personal disdain is grounds for impeachment.
 At every turn, the claims made by my Democrat colleagues have turned out to be false. Early on it was claimed there was evidence of Russian collusion. There was none. We were told the FBI didn’t abuse the FISA process in its investigation of the Trump campaign. That too has now been proven completely false. Then when the Russian collusion hopes collapsed, we were told that we would hear from a whistleblower that had details of a nefarious call between the president and the president of Ukraine. Then we find out they weren’t even on the call. And we still don’t even know who the whistle blower is. We were told there was clear evidence of a quid pro quo for personal gain. After reading the transcript, it is obvious that you have to make assumptions that wouldn’t even stand up in traffic court to come to that conclusion.
 Instead, the indisputable facts of record destroy their case and though they alleged treason and robbery by the president, the articles we are considering today only make vague accusations of abuse of power and obstruction of Congress, because they found no evidence of treason or bribery or anything else for that matter. today is a very sad day for a Republic. The country is now more divided than it ever has been in my lifetime. The truth has been trampled by this House of Representatives and because of the abuses at the FBI and the Department of Justice. More Americans have an even dimmer view of very important American institutions. Thankfully, the lens of history will ensure that the truth is told and will endure.
Today, the House of Representatives votes on two articles of impeachment of President Trump. Members and all Americans must recognize that impeachment was intended to be a safety valve, rarely used only when a president acts in such an immoral and blatantly unlawful manner as it threatened the very basis of our Republic.
 As we cast votes on these articles, the future tone of this House and politics in this nation must be carefully considered. The issue is not whether we agree with or like the president’s rhetoric, political tactics, use of Twitter, policy choices or his political rallies.
 One of our founders, Alexander Hamilton, warned at the risks of impeachment becoming a solely partisan act in The Federalist Papers. This impeachment inquiry and these articles clearly do not heed that warning. These proceedings are weaponizing impeachment, making it another election tool.
 I’ve carefully examined the evidence presented throughout the inquiry and contrary to some considered our history, our founding documents, and our future. It is clear President Trump’s actions as described in these articles do not constitute treason, bribery, or high crimes and misdemeanors. You simply don’t like him. I’ll be voting no on these articles and will hope someday we returned to serving the needs of the American people.
Thank you Madam Speaker. I rise today in strong opposition to this political charade that has tormented our country for nearly three years. If there was ever any doubt that this entire illegitimate investigation is 100% politically motivated, earlier this month, Speaker Pelosi actually admitted the impeachment process began two and a half years ago. Let me say that again. The Speaker of the House said publicly that the Democrats had been trying to remove our president from office since the day he got elected simply because it was not the outcome they wanted. Another of my Democrat colleagues publicly admitted in May that the driving force behind their actions was, and I quote, “If we don’t impeach the president, he’ll get reelected.” This wasn’t an investigation, Madam Speaker. This was a political crusade.
 In order to arrive at their Stalinistic, predetermined conclusion, House Democrats spent the last several months staging well-rehearsed hearings where the charges were drawn up by their own focus groups. Democrat donors served as witnesses and Democrat staff served as judge and jury. Even with the odds so bluntly stacked against the president, Democrats still came up with absolutely nothing.
 A while ago, the speaker spoke of the Pledge of Allegiance. The last phrase of the pledge is, “Justice for all.” Justice is not something afforded the president during the investigation. He was denied due process. Something Supreme Court said should be afforded in all congressional investigations. That makes this process illegal and illegitimate. What a shame. What a sham. 
I start out first that this is the largest and most massive cover up of a such a list of crimes against our country and it goes so far as to bring impeachment hearings to try to cover all of this up.
 And I would take you back to October of 2015 when Barack Obama said Hillary Clinton would never intend to jeopardize our national security. Again. the following April, the next month, Peter Strzok wrote the statement that was delivered by James Comey and they spent Democrat money and Hillary Clinton money in Russia to pick up dirt on Donald Trump.
 And then Joe Biden goes to Ukraine and makes a statement, here’s $1 billion, but you must do what I tell you to do. You’re accusing Donald Trump of doing that, which Joe Biden has confessed to.
 And by the way, Joe Biden was not the opponent of Donald Trump. He’s in a 21 way primary for… and he’s running third in that race. His opponents are the other 20 Democrats. How would anybody dig into that mess of 21 people in decide he’s going to go overseas and pull some maneuver like this. You have to assign him a motive. You assign him emotive, then you create the dots, then you go dot to dot.
 But the reality is that it was Biden that was doing the extortion of the power play in order to protect his own son. And it was Donald Trump that was following the law that said you have to ensure that there’s not corruption here before this money is handed over. And by the way, there was a violent war going on in Ukraine, and that’s when we sent blankets and MREs over there under Barack Obama. But when I hear this from the gentleman from Georgia, Mr. Johnson, he doesn’t think he can win the election fair and square. So he would cheat. And I’ve heard that here on this floor. No, it’s the other way around. Your number one proponent of impeachment as Al Green of Texas. And he said those very same things and they brought this case November 9th the day after Trump was elected.
As I have reminded many times we have fallen on the sham process that we’ve had to deal with and we fallen on the facts and won both. And I will remind that if you want to talk about elections, remember it was the Speaker of the House that said we can’t trust the voters to… it’s too dangerous to leave it with the voters for President Trump next year.

As you all know, I serve on both the Judiciary Committee and Rules Committee. And I have literally spent hours, hours pouring over testimony, looking at documents, sitting in hearings. And you know the conclusion I got from all of that? This impeachment is a total joke and a total sham.
 And let me tell you one of the reasons why I think that all of those witnesses, the 17 witnesses that the Democrats brought forward, not one single one of them was able to establish that President Trump committed bribery, treason, high crimes or misdemeanors, which is required in the US Constitution. And again, 17 out of 24 Democrat members on Judiciary Committee voted on this floor to move forward articles of impeachment before the phone call. And five out of nine Rule Committee, Democrat members did the same thing. So if the main part of your impeachment is the call, why did you vote for impeachment prior to the call? I also want to remind the American public and others.
 I also want to remind the American public and others that for two years, Adam Schiff claimed he had proof, proof! That president Trump had colluded with Russia. That turned out to be false and then overnight it was obstruction of justice, then quid pro quo, then bribery, then extortion. And the list goes on, but yet not one of those is listed in the articles of impeachment. To my Democrat colleagues, Madam Chair, I say, please stop tearing the country apart. Stop this sham.
Thank you Madam Speaker. Today is a sad day in our nation’s history as House Democrats are poised to approve on a strictly party line vote articles of impeachment based on what constitutional scholar Jonathan Turley called wafer-thin evidence. This will set a dangerous precedent where impeachment becomes the norm rather than the exception. That’s not what our Founding Fathers intended. They wanted impeachment to be rare. They set a high bar for impeachment: treason, bribery, high crimes, and misdemeanors, alleged abuse of power.
 The first article is not a high crime and misdemeanor. In fact, it’s not even a crime, and since there is no concise, legal definition of abuse of power, the majority party in the House can designate nearly any disagreement with the president from now on an impeachable offense. The second article, alleged obstruction of Congress, would produce a similarly dangerous precedent. Asserting executive privilege, a practice that began with George Washington, is not obstruction of Congress. Rather, it’s a function of the essential checks and balances contemplated under the constitution. Here’s what nearly every grade school student in America knows, but apparently House Democrats do not. If Congress disagrees with the president, if they don’t agree with the president, take it to court. Let the third branch of government decide. They’re the refs.
 The House has never, I repeat, never, approved either abuse of power or obstruction of Congress as an article of impeachment, but that’s going to change today. Today, House Democrats are pursuing a wacky Constitutional theory under which all four presidents on Mount Rushmore could have been impeached. If all of this sounds absurd, Madam Speaker, it’s because it is absurd. In fact, this whole process is absurd and has been from the outset. But here’s what’s not absurd, but rather frightening. House Democrats today are setting a dangerous precedent under which no future president will be immune from impeachment and that will forever negatively tarnish the history of this House.
I rise today in opposition to the impeachment of the legitimately elected President of the United States. Enough. Madam Speaker, for the love of this country, enough. Enough of this impeachment circus. Enough of these sham witch hunts. I’m voting no because the President has done nothing wrong. The only thing that President Trump is guilty of is doing the things he said he would do. And if my Democrat colleagues were honest, they’d tell us the only thing President Trump is guilty of is not being Hillary Clinton.
 The only party guilty of obstruction, abuse of power, or whatever focus groups term they’re using today, is the party on the other side of this aisle. They’re obstructing the will of the American people. They’re obstructing the very foundations of our country by politically weaponizing impeachment. They have dangerously shattered precedent and abused our Constitution. They alone will bear this responsibility.
 Madam Speaker, they’ll fail. And it’s no wonder the American people don’t trust this body. It’s past time be done with this circus and get to the work that matters like securing our borders and passing trade deals. I will vote no and encourage this body to move on from this heartbreaking, disgraceful day, to things that actually matter. 
Since the beginning of this impeachment inquiry, it’s been extremely troubling to see the partisan, divisive way in which Democrats have carried out this entire process. I guess we shouldn’t be surprised though. They promised they’d unseat this president since the day he took his oath of office. From the start, this has been a baseless attempt to undo the will of 63 million Americans who voted for President Trump.
 I can tell you, the people I represent in Kentucky, the very people who voted for this president to enact change and fight for this country, are appalled at the charade they’ve seen in the House in recent months. They are appalled at the actions from House Democrats who have failed to even come close to proving their case. I hope all of my Congressional colleagues carefully consider the precedent they are setting by voting in favor of this sham process and these illegitimate articles of impeachment. These articles were written and built on a report that was drafted with biased presumptions, cherry-picked witnesses and vastly disputed facts.
 The president did not commit any impeachable offense and it’s clear for all of us to see, through the now very well-known transcript. This rigged process sets a concerning precedent for impeachable offenses moving forward. And I wholeheartedly oppose these baseless articles of impeachment
I rise today in opposition not only to these articles of impeachment, but in strong opposition to the process that has brought us to this point. Our constitution and bill of rights are all about process. Our founders knew that a government without constraints could accuse anyone of any crime at any time, even without compelling evidence. That’s why the Fifth and the Fourteenth Amendments established a bedrock principle of “innocent until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt.” But on November the 14th, Speaker Pelosi informed the press that the president should prove his innocence when she stated, “Mr. President, if you have anything that shows your innocence,” then he should make that known.
 The constitution also guarantees that the accused can call witnesses to testify on their behalf, but the Republicans and the president were continually denied that right throughout this process. The Sixth Amendment guarantees the right of the defendant to face their accuser, but not only have the Democrats prohibited Republicans and the president from questioning the so-called whistleblower, his identity has been kept secret.
 Before you take this historic vote today, one week before Christmas, I want you to keep this in mind. When Jesus was falsely accused of treason, Pontius Pilate gave Jesus the opportunity to face his accusers. During that sham trial, Pontius Pilate afforded more rights to Jesus than the Democrats have afforded this president and this process.
It is interesting that the president was supposedly given the opportunity to sit before the Judiciary Committee, but maybe who would he have asked questions of? Three law school professors and a staff member? Not a lot of due process there. 

Madam Speaker, we are here today because House Democrats have spent upwards of $30 million in three years trying to overturn the 2016 election of President Trump and come up with nothing. Because of their radical left wing, Democrats are willing to make all future presidential elections invalid until judged worthy by the majority in the House of Representatives. The President of the United States does not serve at the pleasure of the House of Representatives. Perhaps the greatest denial of reality regarding President Trump is acknowledging that under his policies, things are actually going much better than they have in decades for working Americans.
 We are a democratic, constitutional republic in which power flows from we the people to our president and elected officials. The Democrat majority thinks otherwise. They believe that they’re entitled to rule us even if they have to change the rules to invalidate the will and the votes of the people of America and that is why the absence of a case does not matter in this charade of impeachment. I believe that the American people recognize and share my urgency about what is at stake here.
 Madam Speaker, you and your majority may decide today, but I have faith that the American people will decide otherwise, next November. 
I oppose this impeachment effort and will vote no on the articles of impeachment. I represent the fifth district of Virginia, which is home to so many Founding Fathers whose vision shaped the great country we are living in today. Thomas Jefferson and James Madison are not around to see what their creation has become, but I don’t think they would be pleased to see Congress subverting the will of democracy by holding an impeachment vote because the majority party simply cannot accept the 2016 election.
 Instead of wasting the taxpayers’ time and money on specious investigations, we could have passed legislation to address surprise medical billing, secure the border, address the opioid epidemic, reduce student debt, and solve a litany of other issues that Americans actually care about. Tomorrow we might have a vote on the USMCA, which we should have passed months ago had it not been for the obstruction and delays from Democrats, delays that have made farmers in my district and other districts suffer, votes like the one we will take today.
 The decisions that have led up to today’s vote, the nature and entire process of this proceeding reeks of careers, bureaucrats, and politicians that put politics over people. I was not elected to take political votes that attempt to overturn the will of the American people. I ran for office to serve my constituents. Let’s remember that’s why we are here. Weaponizing emotion is not the way to serve the United States of America and to my colleagues who do just that, I offer a quote Thomas Paine wrote in the crisis: “To argue with a person who has renounced the use of reason is like administering medicine to the dead.” 
I rise in opposition to these baseless articles of impeachment and the unprecedented process that’s been used in this effort to impeach the duly elected President of the United States. It is a mockery of American justice. In 1788 one of our Founding Fathers, Alexander Hamilton, wrote in the Federalist Papers, “In many cases, impeachment will connect itself with the pre-existing factions, and in such cases, there will always be the greatest danger that the decision will be regulated more by the comparable strength of parties, majority and minority, than by real demonstrations of innocence or guilt.”
 What does this mean? It means that the majority can exert its influence regardless of justice. In this statement, Hamilton warned us about the danger of mob rule. Democrats have a criminal and have been searching for a crime for three years, but this president has not committed a crime. As a leader of American foreign policy, the president has a constitutional obligation to root out corruption in countries to which we provide aid. This is not an abuse of power. It is his job.
 One of the articles is obstruction of Congress. The only thing that’s been instructed is this president’s right to due process. I don’t blame the president for refusing to fully participate in “this guilty until proven innocent” circus. This is not how our Founding Fathers framed American justice. This is a tragic day in our nation’s history. We have individuals that hate this president more than they love this country. Our country needs prayer and not this destructive partisanship. 
Today, Democrats lower the bar for impeachment. Under the standard, a president can be impeached in the absence of a crime, without due process and for asserting a legally, constitutionally recognized privilege.
 History shows Democrat presidents have abused power, undermined democracy, and win elections, and yet they have not been impeached. President Franklin Roosevelt used the IRS to target his political opponents. His son later admitted FDR used “the IRS as a weapon of political retribution.” President John F. Kennedy used the FBI to wiretap and monitor political opponents, including Congressional staff. He deported one of his mistresses to avoid scandal. President Lyndon Johnson spied on Goldwater’s campaign, signing off on wiretapping his opponent and Goldwater’s airplane and using a CIA spy to obtain advanced copies of Goldwater’s strategies and speeches. President Barack Obama refused to provide documents to Congress related to fast and furious. His unconstitutional recess appointments were unanimously struck down by the Supreme Court. He used national security agencies to lie to the American people about Benghazi to win the 2012 election. He spied on reporters. Finally, it was the Obama administration that committed 17 serious violations before the FISA court to spy on Trump campaign associates.
 Despite these clear abuses of power by FDR, JFK, LBJ, and Obama, Republicans did not impeach. Why? Because the framers did not want a low bar for impeachment. They wanted Congress and the president to work out their differences. When I asked Professor Turley in a Judiciary Committee hearing if any president could avoid impeachment with those low standard, he said no.
You know in the Navy we had a saying, bluff bottom line up front. Well, I’ll give you the bottom line. Democrats are terrified that President Trump is going to win reelection. They can’t beat him on the merits. So Democrats are caving to their far latch radical base and they’re using the thoughts and the feelings and the assumptions of some unnamed bureaucrats rather than relying on facts and law to impeach a duly elected president. Let me be clear, this is nothing more than a political hit job.
 I’ve been on all sides of the courtroom. I was a prosecutor in the Navy. I was a defense attorney in the Navy. I was a district judge in my hometown. And let me tell you, as a lawyer, I would defend this case every day of the week. As a judge, I would dismiss this on day one for lack of merit. There was no primae facia case here. I’ll tell you who I’d prosecute though. I would prosecute Adam Schiff for abuse of power. Why? How about the fact that he used his position as chairman to leak phone records of ranking member Devin Nunez? How about the fact that he’d dumped over 8,000 pages of documents on Republicans less than 48 hours before a hearing?
 That is the abuse of power. And obstruction, I’d prosecute the Democrats for obstruction. How about the fact that judiciary Democrats voted down my request to subpoena the whistle blower? How about the fact that Chairman Adler refused every single Republican request for a fact witness? That is obstruction of Congress. So again, let me be clear. Today is nothing more than a political hit job. Thank you.
I know this is probably not true, but I think the speakers are not working on the majority side because I have talked about it. Many of our members have talked about the facts. Let’s just go over them real quickly. No pressure, no conditionality, nothing was ever denied them and when they got through, they actually got the money and they never did anything for it. We have talked about the facts. That’s a distraction that doesn’t need to happen.

I’ve heard numerous colleagues say they didn’t run for Congress to impeach the president. Well, maybe not originally, but unfortunately from the moment proceedings began after the fourth vote to launch an impeachment inquiry, today’s vote was inevitable. Many of them campaigned on it. I love this country with a soldier’s passion. I came here to defend freedom, not to deny due process to anyone. I came here to solve problems and change the broken status quo, not to distract or disrupt those like President Donald Trump who deliver on promises to put America back on the path of peace and prosperity that has made and kept our country free.
 For months now, Americans have heard speculation about the president’s motives in Ukraine. Despite months of effort, dozens of hearings, and countless documents, Americans have not seen proof that the president committed a high crime or a misdemeanor. We have a republic if we can keep it. This is disgraceful, dishonest process. It’s a discredit to this body and to our nation. I urge the House to drop these divisive articles of impeachment and get to work for the American people. 
in three months, we’ve gone from receiving an unsubstantiated hearsay and discredit to whistleblower complaint to the production of articles of impeachment against the president of the United States. Not since Andrew Johnson has a house engaged in such a partisan political stunt. From the beginning, this has been a sham and this House has been nothing but a star chamber. The Democrat majority literally locked themselves in the basement of this building, hiding from the American people. When my colleagues and I refused to stand for it, Democrats moved to public hearings, but denied us questions, denied us witnesses, and denied the president any meaningful opportunity to defend himself.
 With this complete abusive process, the Democratic majority has produced the flimsiest and most legally unsound articles of impeachment in the history of this nation. Never before has the House reported an article of impeachment that does not allege an underlying crime yet this majority will do so today. Read the transcripts. There was no quid pro quo, no bribery, no extortion, no crime, and no abusive power and they don’t even allege a crime in their articles of impeachment. The president raising Ukrainian corruption is not an impeachable offense.
 If the dealings of Hunter Biden were so above board, you would think the majority would be just fine looking into this matter, yet they haven’t moved my resolution asking for an investigation and our subpoenas for Hunter Biden have all been denied. Hunter Biden doesn’t get a pass because his dad was vice president. I am proud to have fought against a charade every step of the way and I will proudly vote no today.
This is the day the founding fathers feared when they granted Congress the power of impeachment where we have a political party so dead set against the president that they will do anything to impeach him and they’re about to get away with it simply because they have the votes. But that’s not how this process is supposed to work. It’s not meant to be dictated by a thin, partisan majority, nor is it meant to be used when an election is just around the corner and no one understands that better than our speaker who I have great respect for.
 And I agree with the comments she made on March the sixth of just this year. Impeachment is so divisive to the country that unless there’s something so compelling and overwhelming and bipartisan, I don’t think we should go down that path because it divides the nation. And that’s exactly what’s happened. And when we walk out of here tonight, we all know how this result’s going to go. The Democrats are voting for this. Not one Republican is breaking. This is not bipartisan. The American people are disgusted with the United States House of Representatives and we bring shame upon this body today by moving forward with this impeachment.
The only urgent threat to this body is the clock and the calendar and the desire to impeach the president before we go home for Christmas.

Today’s a sad day in the people’s House. Since Donald Trump was elected in 2016, Democrats have been on a crusade to stop him by any means. I believe the American people, the fairest people on this earth, they believe that everyone should be treated equally under the law no matter what your station you occupy in life. Rich, poor, president, factory worker, fair. This process has been anything but fair. For two years, we’ve been told that then candidate Donald Trump colluded with Russians to interfere with our elections.
 Two years, millions of dollars spent in a Mueller investigation, no collusion. You’d think after being that wrong, Democrats would finally decide to work on the problems that the American people send us here to do. You’d be wrong again. Then we were told that the president withheld money to the Ukrainians in a quid pro quo. No, no, a bribery, no abusive power. I guess, whatever polls best to gather information on a political rival, potential rival. Well, here’s some facts about what happened. Fact number one, the transcript of July 25th phone conversation that president released shows no pressure.
 Fact number two, President Zelensky did not know the money was withheld. Fact number three, no investigation occurred or was announced. Fact number four, the money was released September 11, 2019. Facts are stubborn things. One member on the other side of the aisle said “I’m concerned that if we don’t impeach this president, he will get reelected.” 
You know, December is such a great month and there’s so many great dates in December and we talk about the wonderful things that have happened in Decembers of the past. There’s also in addition to Christmas being something we celebrate, the Boston Tea Party took place in December. But also on December 7, 1941 a horrific act happened in the United States and this one that President Roosevelt said, this is a date that will live in infamy. Today, December the 18th 2019 is another date that will live in infamy. When just because you hate the president of the United States and you can find no other reason other than the fact that you’re so blinded by your hate that you can’t see straight that you’ve decided the only way we can make sure this president doesn’t get elected again is to impeach him.
 On the floor of the people’s House, the bastion of democracy and liberty in the whole world, we have decided that political power is far more important than principle. I would urge all members of the House to vote no on impeachment and to look their voters in the eye and remit. Listen, let me tell you, the voters are will remember next November what you’re doing this December. This is a terrible time. This is a date that will live in infamy. 
Thank you. I’d like to address why we’re here. We’re certainly not here because of a misquoted phone call in July of 2019. The Washington Post ran an article headlined The Campaign to Impeach President Trump has Begun the Day he was Sworn in. The gentleman from Maryland who spoke earlier today called for impeachment two days before President Trump was in, before he was sworn in. The gentleman from Texas was introducing impeachment resolutions two years ago and said, President Trump should be impeached so he can’t get reelected.
 This impeachment is not about anything that happened on a phone call. This impeachment is about what President Trump has done. The people in this country who are let in, who are inadmissible, are apprehended and don’t have legal authority, fell from 100,000 people in May to under 5,000 people in November and you hate him for it. Ben Carson thinks that low income housing should be used by American citizens and not people who are here illegally and you hate him for it. President Trump doesn’t want people coming here and going on welfare and you hate him for it.
 President Trump wants able bodied people on food stamps to try to work and he’s hated for it. President Trump renegotiated that rip off trade agreement with Mexico and Canada, and that was led in place by President Bush and President Obama, and you hate him for it. President Trump sides with law enforcement instead of criminals and murders dropped a thousand people last year and you hate him for siding with the police. President Trump lets Christian adoption agencies choose who they want to be parents and you don’t like them for that.
 President Trump won’t let foreign aid go to agencies that perform abortions, you hate him for that. President Trump’s judges stick to The Constitution. He’s disliked for that. President Trump is keeping his campaign promises and you hate him for that. 
I’d like to address my colleagues on the other side of the aisle and reiterate President Washington’s warning to the republic 223 years ago. The Constitution rightly sets a high bar for impeachment, but the integrity of the process also depends on the ability of the legislators to vote their minds independent of party politics. Removing a president is too important and lawmakers are given too much latitude to define high crimes and misdemeanors for it to be any other way. Otherwise, excessively partisan politicians could overturn an election simply because the president is a member of the opposite and opposing party.
 It is in regard to this impeachment process that George Washington forewarned us as a nation at this moment in history when political parties may now and then answer popular ends, they are likely in the course of time and things to become potent engines by which cunning, ambitious and unprincipled men and women will be enabled to subvert the power of the people to use usurp for themselves the reins of government. How wise he was. Vote no on this assault to our republic, The Constitution and against President Trump.
history is being written. The facts are conclusive. The president attempted to use the power of the powerful office of president to force Ukraine to influence our 2020 election. In the process, President Trump jeopardized our national security and withheld vital military assistant attended to prevent further Russian aggression to our region. However, as our committees, including government oversight, which I sit on and which I’m a member sought to interview additional witnesses and obtain documents the president ordered from the power of his office that the executive branch to not participate in obstructed the congressional oversight.
 Article one provides the house of representatives with the sole power of impeachment as well as the authority to conduct oversight of the executive branch. What did he have to hide? When the framers met over 200 years ago, they went to great lengths to ensure future presidents would be forced to answer to their constitutional responsibility. I stand today in support of the two articles of impeachment.
Today’s a sad day for this body, for the voters who sent me here last November and for our nation. Benjamin Franklin cautioned when asked what he had given us, a republic, if you can keep it. Today, we take a step further toward losing the republic that our founding fathers envisioned by engaging in activity that they specifically warned against, the misuse of the constitutional power of impeachment for one party’s political gain. Our constitution is the very foundation of our republic. Its assurance of self determination has been the shining beacon by which our nation has chartered its course of the last two centuries.
 From a new democratic experiment struggling to survive to the greatest nation on earth, America has been powered over the years, not by government, but by the ingenuity, the bravery, and the faith of its people.
I would just like to point out very quickly that the only Republican witnesses allowed in the intelligence hearings were on a Democrats pre-approved list.

I rise in opposition to this partisan sham of an impeachment resolution that is ripping our country apart. Beginning even before he took office, President Trump has been attacked by a never-ending barrage of lies and corruption and deceit by the liberal political elite, including James Comey, Peter Strzok, Lisa Page, Hillary Clinton, and the impeachment zealots in this Congress.
 Democrats colluded with Russia and Ukraine to interfere in our 2016 election by producing the now famous fake dossier. Now they accuse President Trump of colluding with a foreign power. What a joke. They abused their office to illegally wiretap and spy on President Trump’s campaign. Now they accused him of abusing his office. What a joke. They structure these proceedings to deny the President and Republicans in Congress a fair hearing, then they accuse the President of obstructing Congress. Look in the mirror folks.
 The reaction of the American people that this is contrived and corrupt was entirely predictable and is entirely correct. The polls have turned against them and the Democrats are desperate to stop the bleeding. That’s why we’re cramming this vote in today just before leaving for Congress to dispose of impeachment as quickly and painlessly as possible.
 The actions of the Democrats are a stain on this chamber. I urge my colleagues to join me in fighting against this shameful abuse of power and vote “No” on this sham of an impeachment resolution. 
Madam Speaker, I am strongly opposed to this impeachment. No law was broken, no high crimes or misdemeanors, no impeachable offenses. Ukrainians received aid one week prior to the law’s requirement, aid that was previously rejected by the administration before it. There was no investigation and President Zelensky said he received no pressure from the Trump administration ever. Simply put, there was no quid pro quo and no crime. There’s only the majority’s disdain for the President. That is not an impeachable offense.
 The elections are in 10 months, but the majority doesn’t trust the American people. Too many have said that the impeachment is necessary so the President is not reelected in 2020. That is shameful. Today’s vote sets a new precedent for America. In the future, the majority will use impeachment as a tactic to remove a President simply based on partisanship. Our founders feared this. I strongly oppose it. I want my statement to be in the record for the end of time to show I was on the side of the constitution. That I opposed a majority taking down a duly-elected President who committed no crime and I defended the truth. 
Wow, I just love this. Again, pot shot him when you can. Remember quid pro quo, didn’t work out real well for him because that was supposedly we had pressure on Mr. Zelensky. In fact it didn’t work out so well you had to go poll test it. The majority didn’t work out because focus groups didn’t like it.
 What do we do? We throw it in here, a bribe. Ooh, it’s all in their report. But if they had a bribe or if they actually had a crime, it’d be in the articles. Guess what? He doesn’t have it. He can’t put it in there. This is all fluff and circumstance because they can’t get to the President and that’s what’s killing them. 
House Democrats have been obsessed with impeaching President Trump since he was elected. He wasn’t supposed to win. ” How could the voters support him,” they asked. The American people were told the only way the Speaker would move forward with impeachment was if the case was compelling, overwhelming and bipartisan. Yet the case for impeachment that has been rushed forward by House Democrats is anything but that.
 To be clear, neither of these articles of impeachment prove any wrongdoing or impeachable offense has actually taken place. Instead House Democrats’ case rests solely on hearsay testimony and presumptions from cherry-picked witnesses. The framers of the Constitution never intended impeachment to be used as a tool to settle political and policy differences. That’s what elections are for.
 This is a sad and dangerous moment in our history as impeachment is being used to undo the will of the American people and silence the voices of millions of Americans in the process. Alexander Hamilton would be ashamed. I urge my college to vote no on this partisan impeachment sham 
The Democrats’ new definition for evidence is allegations, allegations based on hearsay I might add. They hurl allegations against the President, and then they say to him that it’s not their responsibility to prove guilt, but the President’s responsibility to prove his innocence. This has been a sham and an act of injustice against the President and against 93 million Americans who voted for him. Although this process was rigged from the beginning, Democrats never produced a single true piece of evidence. It’s time for us to stop this hoax and vote against these articles of impeachment.

I rise today in support of our constitution, in support of the military members in harm’s way who defend our constitution, in support of Gold Star Families who keep faith that their loved one’s sacrifice was justified. I rise today in support of the oath I first took at 17 upon entering the Naval Academy and took five more times in my 20-year Navy career. An oath that comforted me in the years I spent away from my family deployed around the globe.
 An oath that encouraged me to remain vigilant on the bridge of the ship at night. An oath that strengthened me when in command as I sent my fellow sailors into harm’s way. Today an oath that gives me resolve, resolve to do what is right and not what is politically expedient. Resolve to stand with the President at the White House last week and resolve to stand up to the President in this House today. I ask my colleagues to have the same strength and the same resolve.
When emotion supersedes the facts, the conclusion is cataclysmic. Today we are wrapping up not a three-month process, but rather a three-year process with Democrats disdained so much that it’s led to the abuse of this very House. These are the same Democrats who promised America they saw evidence of Russian collusion. Do the American people trust them? Hell no, they don’t.
 A growing number of American people have condemned this impeachment process and that’s what House Democrats setting the rules and then even bending and breaking the rules to fit their narrative. The majority of Americans see this circus for what it is. I wonder how many more will join them? 
Don’t be fooled. Democrats are not impeaching the President to protect national security. Democrats are impeaching the President for following a law that they themselves voted for. No less than five times in the last six years bipartisan congresses imposed on the executive branch an affirmative duty to ensure that the government of Ukraine was countering corruption and for good reason.
 Ukraine is the third most corrupt nation on earth. The President not only had the legal authority to temporarily pause security assistance to Ukraine, he had a mandate from Congress to do it. As a result, President Zelensky’s government made historic anti-corruption reforms making Ukraine a more reliable ally, countering Russian aggression. Far from compromising national security, the President’s actions advanced national security. Oppose this impeachment.

Today, many of my Democratic colleagues will be making history, unfortunately for supporting the first ever completely partisan impeachment of a President of the United States. Mr. Speaker, I am deeply disturbed that history will indeed be made today in this hallowed chamber, but for all the wrong reasons. Not for love of country, but hatred for a political foe. Not to pursue justice, but to punish a political adversary. Not to seek truth, but to seize political power. For the love of country, I urge my colleagues to oppose this disastrous political ruse.

what is shameful is that Speaker Pelosi has allowed this democratic witch hunt to move forward. She’s the one who has abused her power. We should be debating her removal from the House. Reagan said that, “The trouble with our liberal friends is not that they’re ignorant, it’s just that they know so much that isn’t so.” Democrat extreme partisanship will set a dangerous precedent for this nation and mark my words, Madam Speaker, this sinister attempt to remove this lawful President will not go unnoticed. 

I’m sad today that I spent two Christmases defending our country overseas and I get a measly 30 seconds to speak in this laughable process. Our President made a campaign promise to drain the swamp. There are those today relying on swamp creatures’ words to preserve swamp. How do you suppress the votes of 63 million people, an electoral landslide? You keep repeating the same lies absent any factual basis.
 I’ve heard some of the greatest fiction ever spoken here today. If you don’t like the facts, just rewrite them in a parody and repeat. If the facts are so clear and indisputable, why is the minority leader begging for more witnesses? You can’t disprove something that never happened. I asked my colleagues to vote no to this sham. Thank you and I yield back.
Is a shame on the floor of this House when you accuse somebody and then make them prove they’re not guilty of what you’re accusing of.

I rise in strong opposition to this partisan impeachment spectacle that just seeks to accomplish what President Trump’s opponents failed to do at the ballot box in 2016. Our votes today are merely formalizing the decision my colleagues on the other side of the aisle reached three years ago.
 This process has been an embarrassment to our country, an insult to our Constitution, and a distraction from the real work we should be accomplishing for the American people. I stand with the people of Tennessee sixth district in strongly supporting President Trump. I will vote against the articles of impeachment before us today.
In her own words, Speaker Pelosi said, “Impeachment must be compelling, overwhelming and bipartisan.” These articles of impeachment being considered today by the House failed to meet Speaker Pelosi’s own standards. Process matters, folks.
 Representing a good chunk of Gerald Ford’s old district and being a staffer during the Clinton administration, I have a an intimate understanding of the effects of impeachment on this nation. I’m stunned to see my Democrat colleagues whitewash, or maybe I should say Whitewater, Bill Clinton’s cooperation with the House of Representatives. That is not exactly what was going on.
This is the most partisan impeachment that we have seen in our nation’s history.

It’s been very clear from the beginning that this impeachment proceeding has never been about an honest search for the truth. If it were, our Democratic friends would not have polled to see what to charge the President with. Calling an opinion a fact does not make it so, and repeating it over and over does not make it more true.
 When one produces a committee report with fabricated findings based on no-fact witnesses and then quote from it like it’s authoritative, it’s no more valid than having a campaign pay for a foreign entity to create a fraudulent dossier and then …
 Pay for a foreign entity to create a fraudulent dossier and then selling it to a FISA court in order to spy on a campaign. This has always been a verdict in search of a crime and impeachment birthed out of resistance movement-
It’s time to end the charade And get back to doing the work we were elected to do.

In a day heavy and verbal debate, I choose to use my time to enumerate in detail every high crime and misdemeanor committed by the President of United States. I will do so now.

I’m a Green Beret and a proud veteran, but this process does not make me proud. I’ve fought all over the world from Africa to Afghanistan and seen fair and more transparent processes than this. Since the Democrats lost the election in 2016 they’ve been focused on impeaching this president. Meanwhile, we have not solved the problems America and trusted us to solve, immigration, healthcare, infrastructure. Nothing in president Trump’s call rises to the level of high crimes and misdemeanors worthy of impeachment For that reason, I’ll be voting against impeachment today.

I rise today in opposition or the articles of impeachment on President Trump. My democratic colleagues had been planning to impeach President Trump since he took office. After months of wasting House time on partisan investigations, they’ve been unable to produce evidence that president Trump committed a crime. I will vote no in today’s articles of impeachment. I look forward to getting back to the business on behalf of Kentuckians

And we have never ever in the history of this country seen a presidency like this one. Once the president was sworn in 19 minutes later, the Washington Post said impeachment begins today. A million women March the next day on Washington. Bank of America, Starbucks, both had supported Hillary Clinton had their windows broken out here in Washington because people were so upset that this man was elected President of the United States. He’s had his head held underwater for almost three years now, never coming up for breath of air, you keep pushing him down. Lowest black unemployment ever, lowest Hispanic unemployment ever. Highest stock market ever Lowest unemployment in years

I have been concerned since the beginning of this impeachment process, that has been driven by a predetermined guilty verdict. It’s unfair, it’s wrong, and now every future President, Democrat or Republican will have to worry that the impeachment process will be driven as a blunt force political instrument. It’s been said that this day is sad. It’s not sad, it’s regrettable. But this day will end shortly, the house has had its cathartic moment. Tomorrow we will begin a new day. Let’s get back to work.
Ready, fire, aim, what we’re hearing today are made up articles to fit an ever shrinking impeachment foothold. George Washington could be impeached under this criteria. Democrats believe they are saving our democracy with these hysterical made up charges, which is odd because we are a Republic, not a democracy, as they keep insisting. No one came to Congress to impeach, we hear. Several new and returning members have come specifically to impeach the President Trump. I hear a lot of day about sadness and solemnity from impeachment? No, because their candidate lost in 2016. The American people chose Donald J. Trump to lead us into prosperity, not a socialist government. We will survive this day, but I call upon the American people To seesthrough this sham
And live to hear speaking the truth.
I’m voting no. Impeachment is not in the best interests of this country and in fact it has only deepened the partisan divide that truly plagues this country. When the sun comes up tomorrow, I pray with all my heart that the anger and the division in this chamber will give way to an honorableness and a productivity and a time of working together. 
True, today a duly elected president has been impeached by the House of Representatives by the Democrats compelled by partisanship and not by the facts. I’m proud to stand here with President Donald Trump and I plan to cast my vote against both articles of impeachment. This is not, it’s not that the president abused his power. It is my colleagues on the other side of the aisle who are abusing one of the most powerful tools that’s been entrusted the Congress, in the constitution, by our founding fathers. Twisting the constitution to impeach a president You figure we’ll be
Webster’s dictionary defines a star-chamber as, “Characterized by secrecy and often being irresponsibly arbitrary and oppressive.” Sad that my Democrat friends have turned this chamber, the people’s chamber into the star-chamber of the people. One great example, the most important thing we can do as members is declare war, next one is to impeach a president. We’re hoping Republicans can have every member stand up and vote. Like for speaker, say their vote loudly That’s denied. CNN has been denied

Now while this institution should rightfully insure that the law’s faithfully executed by the administrative branch, this exercise has shown itself to be the ultimate manipulation of the legislative branches oversight powers in order to achieve political gain. I caution my colleagues, who have placed political expediency ahead of moderation, their votes later day will forever change this institution. Imagine a future where this body utilizes the most severe of its constitutional tolls to continually put the oppositional party on trial.

’ve said from the beginning of this process, impeachment is and should be the nuclear option reserved for the most treasonous activity and the most serious activity. Clearly that has been not met here. As I’ve reviewed the facts and evidence as a former federal prosecutor, I’ve read the transcripts, I’ve watched the hearings, I’ve read the whistleblower report, that has not been met here. In addition, this process has lacked fairness, due process and transparency. We shouldn’t be here tonight doing this, this is a travesty.
You know it’s unbelievable, the few Americans that are going to be watching this because they know what the outcome is. We all know what the outcome is. They’re wondering why are we trying to negate the vote of 63 million Americans? Instead of talking about the things that Americans care about, prescription drug coverage, the high cost of prescription drugs, the high cost of healthcare, securing our borders, keeping our economy going. These are the things we should be talking about. No. Instead, we’re going to pass this resolution tonight and then go home for Christmas vacation. Instead of doing the job of America. 
I was a political newcomer before this and just like President Trump perhaps like me, he was naive to think that this house that in the people’s house, everybody was true and just, it’s not the case. Democrats weren’t saddened by this solemn day, they weren’t waiting for all the evidence. This was always about politics because they loathe the President because he doesn’t play by their beltway rules. I should have known, but the fact is, Kansas is better. The US is better and the world is better because of Donald Trump.

My friends on the other side of the aisle have been clamoring for this day since President Trump was elected. Their refusal to accept the election results and later the findings of the Muller investigation have brought forth articles of impeachment that are negated by two simple facts. Namely, the military aid to Ukraine was provided and no investigation was ever started. The real offense is that the President won the election and their fear is that he’ll win again, despite all their efforts. I will vote against the partisan attempt overturn an election.

I rise today in opposition to impeachment against President Donald Trump. This is based on hearsay that were made by partisan witness behind closed doors. This impeachment is a sham Madam Speaker, and it’s divided this country. Congress’ wasted time on this impeachment would have been better used on addressing issues that are facing Americans, like securing our Southern border, the opioid epidemic, or establishing a constitutionally mandated budget. And now American workers have to wait until the Senate trial to pass the USMCA that the President and the House Republicans have been working on for over a year. I’m disappointed in the path Congress chose to go down

It’s obvious today that there’s an intense hatred from the Democrats of President Donald Trump. Why do they hate the man so much? Maybe it’s because of the out of control government gone wild. The abuses of FISA, the abuses by the FBI, the abuses in the State Department. Many of these, maybe it’s just the previous administration, they’re trying to cover up. It’s sad. This is a shameful act in what we’re doing today, shame on the Democrats, shame on pursuing this. I ask every one of you to vote no, and to take notice of who votes for articles of impeachment.

This is a sad day for America. We know this impeachment is a sham. They know this impeachment is a sham. They know, we know this impeachment is a sham. And they know that most of the American people know that this impeachment is a shameful sham. We know that it began the moment the President was elected, long before he ever had a telephone call with any foreign leaders. We’ve heard the numerous quotations from them that validate those very points, and yet they persist in trying to overturn the duly elected President of the United States from America’s election

I’m sure it did strike a chord with the chairman since he showed up a little late, hadn’t heard all the arguments. We’ve beat the facts back all the time. It is the majority side, that had to run through this, that clock and that calendar are killing him and it’s killing him because his arguments are falling flat. And to speak of evidence, yeah, we looked at the evidence, the evidence doesn’t fit anything.
 And by the way, if he had extortion put it in the articles, he can’t because he can’t make the case. He can only put it in his notes and then come to the mic when he can’t be questioned and talk about it. That’s the problem and that’s the cord has been struck.
 Once President Trump was sworn in, articles of impeachment were introduced almost immediately. In three years, House Democrats have introduced 10 resolutions getting supportive over a hundred of their members and all of that before July 25th phone call. But also during that time the Russia conspiracy hoax was exposed. Obstruction of justice charges were abandoned after the Mueller hearings fell flat. So after two years, 19 lawyers, 40 agents, 2,800 subpoenas, 500 warrants and 17 lies in a FISA warrant application, they had nothing to show for it.
 Undeterred by the facts and uninterested in governing the beat marched on. So here we are today. We have no quid pro quo, no bribery, no extortion, no crimes alleged in the articles at all. But don’t worry because we have a brand new 632 page report alleging all kinds of things, some for the very first time. This is in a somber solemn process, this is a political drive-by. They just want President Trump gone. But this never ending march towards overturning the 2016 election has consequences because you’re telling 63 million voters that you don’t respect their vote.
 Voters in States like mine, who not that long ago used to send Democrats to this [inaudible 00:55:20] chamber, but recently have found no home in the democratic party Who feel that their values have been replaced by a liberal, elitist agenda who feel that partisan points are more important than practical solutions. You’re never ending impeachment quest is a constant reminder to them that you don’t trust their judgment, you don’t understand their way of life, and you couldn’t care less about the issues that are important to them.
 As chairman Nadler is so ominously stated, if you’re serious about removing a President from office, what you’re really doing is overturning the results of the last election. Well they were serious, they spent the last three years talking about it, unwilling to accept the results of 2016. I wonder if my colleagues recognize the irony that their impeachment vendetta is the greatest election interference of all and it was home grown right here in the halls of Congress. 
This impeachment is an embarrassment for House Democrats. On the substance Dems claim that their case is uncontested, relying on presumptions hearsay and 3% of the story, trying to connect dots that aren’t actually connected. Some inconvenient truths, President Zelensky didn’t know that there was a hold on aid until August 29th, the aid gets released shortly thereafter and Ukraine didn’t have to do anything in order to get that aid released. Now, President Zelensky says, “No demand, no quid pro quo, no pressure.” But Democrats want the public to ignore the other 97% of this story. See, it doesn’t work like that.
Lee Zeldin: (57:10) Senate Democrats want new witnesses to show why there was a hold on aid. Odd request, if you think you’ve already proven your case. Now at the heart of this debate, two investigations are being discussed between countries. Democrats and media allies want the public to believe it’s all just debunked, that Ukrainians interfered in the 2016 election. They want you to ignore [Ivica 00:57:35] and Chaly comments that Chalupa worked with the Ukrainian embassy, origins of the Steele dossier, the black ledger and more.
 The problem with all of this is that the American public are smarter than Democrats are giving them credit for. Next, the Democrats claim Republicans are arguing that it was Ukraine and not Russia that wanted to interfere and was interfering in the 2016 election. No, that is not what Republicans are saying. And of course we have the Burisma Biden issue, of a corrupt Ukrainian energy company run by a corrupt Ukrainian oligarch, hiring Hunter Biden at least $50,000 per month with no energy experience and no Ukraine experience, solely because he is VP Biden son.
 Now the company wanted to hire Hunter Biden because they wanted to curry favor. There was this ongoing corruption investigation. Enter Joe Biden, he gets that prosecutor fired. Threatening the loss of $1 billion, if it didn’t happen immediately, which it was. Now, Democrats believe Burisma and Biden should be immune from scrutiny. I disagree. Never again should that conflict of interest ever happen and our governments should be working together to get to the bottom of all of this.
 This has also been a total disaster on the process, from getting a federal worker to file a whistleblower complaint. To Schiff’s version, made up, of the July 25th call, in closed door interview, Schiff was prosecutor, judge, jury, and witness coach. Every day he loved getting America drunk on his favorite cocktail. Three ingredients, cherry picking leaks, withholding key facts and misstating evidence. In the depositions and in the public hearings, the President council was not invited to attend, present evidence or cross examine witnesses.
 And Republicans weren’t allowed to call witnesses like Hunter Biden, Joe Biden, and many others. Then there was the house judiciary debacle. Where Schiff couldn’t even show up to present his reports, he had to have one of his staffers presented for him. This impeachment is ripping our country in half. It’s fatally flawed on the process, the substance, the intentions, and the consequences It’s a total Schiff show. 
Today as we sit here debating impeachment, they all want to talk about, it’s the constitution, it’s Alexander Hamilton. The last 30 days I’ve heard more about Hamilton from my Democrat colleagues and until then, the closest they ever came to Hamilton, was a $10 bill. I mean, all of a sudden what we have is these strict constitutionalists on the other side of the aisle. Listen, this has nothing to do with the constitution. It has nothing to do with anything but raw politics. There’s only one person on the other side of the aisle that got seven Pinocchios for not telling the truth. No one on this side of the aisle got that, during this impeachment process, Madam Speaker. And the American people need to understand two key facts. The Democrats in control, set their own rules of evidence.
 They said what we need to do for impeachment is to have compelling evidence and bipartisan support. Well, they don’t have either of those two things. They failed the rules that they made up themselves. We’ve got president Zelensky of Ukraine saying there was no pressure. We’ve got the number two guy in Ukraine saying there was no pressure. We’ve got the number three guy in Ukraine, no pressure. These are the supposed victims of this alleged crime and yet here we are, supposedly having this compelling evidence and facts, when the best witness they have, the very best witness they had, had to change his testimony twice.
 They mentioned him 611 times and ultimately, he said, “I presumed that that’s what the President meant.” I can tell you that there are not facts here to support it, but what is more important than that, Madam Speaker, is this, because here we are today, we have bipartisan opposition to impeachment, not bipartisan support. My colleagues opposite want the American people to think that this is a sad and somber day. Well, this is a sad day. It’s a sad day for this institution because we’ve lowered the bar to impeach a president that continues to give us an economy that not only is growing, but growing at levels that we have never seen in the history of our country.
 When we look at unemployment at a level that is truly remarkable, they want to impeach. But it’s another sad day because now what they’re doing is they’re telling the American people that 233 Democrats deserve to decide who the President of the United States should be and disenfranchise 63 million voters. When all is said and done, when the history of this impeachment is written, it will be said that my Washington Democrat friends couldn’t bring themselves to work with Donald Trump, so they consoled themselves instead by silencing the will of those who did, the American people. 
 It’d been nice if they actually thought those crimes were bad enough to put in the Articles. They didn’t.

do you know who doesn’t think the Democrats have presented enough testimony or evidence to impeach President Trump today? It’s the Democrats. Sure, here in the House, Democrats running this inquiry have declared they’ve done everything needed. They have all the testimony and evidence necessary to impeach right now.
John Ratcliffe: (01:05:08) But right now, down the hall, Democrats in the Senate are saying the exact opposite. They’re complaining. They need more evidence and more testimony because Senate Democrats know that House Democrats have built them a house of cards impeachment. An impeachment built by the same Democrats who told America, “Trust us. President Trump committed treason. He’s a Russian agent. We’ve got evidence,” which of course proved to be totally false and took quote, their favorite catchphrase of one member of this House, “they got caught.”
 Along the way, those same Democrats said, “Trust us. The FISA law and court weren’t abused by the Obama Administration using democratic opposition research dossier against the Trump campaign and President Trump.” Again, totally false. And again, they got caught.
 When Democrats started this latest impeachment inquiry, they said, “Trust us. We have not yet spoken to the whistleblower.” Again, totally false, and they got caught.
 Sadly, my democratic colleagues have placed their own credibility in the hands of members of this body that have no credibility left. Members that nobody trusts because they keep getting caught betraying America.
 But unless a bolt of courage and integrity strikes that side of the room in the next hour, history will reflect that Donald Trump is the third president to be impeached. History may also shortly reflect that he’ll be the first president to be reelected after being wrongfully impeached. If that happens, Democrats won’t be able to hide behind a pretend veneer of caring about the Constitution. History will record the Democrats’ legacy as a betrayal of the Constitution because the Founders meant for impeachment to be used for actions so extraordinary, so rare that it’s happened three times in two and a half centuries. It wasn’t meant for congratulatory phone calls where there is no crime alleged, where there’s no victim, and where the Democrats themselves couldn’t even decide what to accuse the president of doing wrong before ending up with this embarrassment of a grab bag of abuse of power article. And obstruction of Congress? To even allege it is an admission of constitutional illiteracy.
 The Founders had a term for what the Democrats call obstruction of Congress. The Founders called it the separation of powers. The funny thing about obstruction, every time Democrats get caught trying to frame this president for some crime he didn’t commit, they follow up by accusing him of obstructing their efforts to frame him for the things he never did in the first place. The Founders warned and feared today might come when impeachment was used politically by the party that had the most votes. Today, Democrats are the Founders’ worst nightmare come true. I think most Americans are probably wishing they could impeach the Democrats. To them I say, “You can next November.”
the Democrats forgot two key things. They forgot about the facts and they forgot about fairness. Four facts will never change. We have the call transcript. No quid pro quo. We have the two guys on the call, excuse me, who have repeatedly said there was no pressure, there was no pushing. We have the fact Ukraine didn’t know aid was held up at the time of the phone call. And most importantly, Ukraine took no action, no announcement of investigation to get the aid released.
 But Democrats don’t care. They don’t care about the facts and they sure don’t care about the process. No subpoena powerful Republicans, no Republican witnesses. During the depositions, Republicans were prevented from getting all their questions answered, but Democrats got every one of their questions. The witness responded every one of theirs, but not Republicans’. The chairman wouldn’t let them in.
 Of course, the whistleblower. The anonymous whistleblower with no firsthand knowledge, bias against the president, who worked for Joe Biden, was never compelled to testify. The guy who started it all.
 This is really about the president’s been driving these guys crazy because he’s getting things done. He’s doing what he said he was going to do. He’s having results. Taxes have been cut, regulations reduced, unemployment at its lowest level in 50 years, the economy growing, Gorsuch and Kavanaugh on the court, out of the Iran deal, embassy in Jerusalem, hostages home from North Korea, and a new NAFTA agreement coming tomorrow.
as the Democrats now admit, their attempt to remove the president began on Trump’s inauguration day when the Democrats semi-official mouthpiece, the Washington Post, declared, “The campaign to impeach President Trump has begun.”
 For years the Democrats tried to expel the president with the preposterous accusation that he was a Russian agent. As detailed by IG Horowitz, dishonest intelligence officials used fake allegations spread by the Democrats to gain approval of a spying operation against the Trump campaign.
 As they falsely accused the Trump campaign of colluding with Russians, the Democrats themselves colluded with Russians to manufacture these allegations in the infamous Steele dossier. They even tried to get nude pictures of Trump from Russian pranksters.
 With the Russian collusion hoax, the Democrats had everything going for them. Federal investigations run by Trump haters, an endless supply of media cheerleaders, and a galaxy of left wing interest groups amplifying their ridiculous message. And yet even with all those weapons at their disposal, the Russia conspiracy theory collapsed. So they quickly concocted plan B. The Ukraine hoax was based on a supposed whistleblower who colluded beforehand with the Democrats. The Democrats then prevented Congress from interviewing the whistleblower while conducting bizarre secret depositions and selectively leaking testimony to discredit media hacks.
 The Democrats showcased the most useful witnesses in public hearings that somehow reduced support for impeachment. It’s not easy to make a coup attempt boring, but the Democrats found a way. As it turns out, the American people don’t think a routine phone call with a foreign leader is a good basis for ousting a US president.
 The Democrats also put forth ever-changing accusations against the president, including campaign finance violations, quid pro quos, election interference, bribery, extortion. Eventually they ended up with the ridiculous charges we consider today, abuse of power, an utterly meaningless term, and obstruction of Congress. One Democrat has pronounced the president guilty simply because he won’t cooperate with their plan to railroad him. But the only thing President Trump is guilty of is beating Hillary Clinton. The Democrats refuse to accept that loss and now they’re indicating they’ll continue their impeachment efforts even after this one fails in the US Senate.
 Madam Speaker, after all their deceit, phony investigations, ginned up crises, and manufactured outrage, the Democrats need a long period of rehabilitation. They must learn how to do something productive for the American people instead of ripping the country apart, and their lust for power.
 But guess what? When you drain the swamp, the swamp fights back. And they started attacking the president before the election even. July 31st, 2016 they opened the Russia investigation. The FBI spied on four American citizens associated with the Trump campaign. The FBI took the dossier to the FISA court. The dossier they already knew was false, they took it to the court and they lied to the court 17 times.
 Guess what? Three days ago on national television, even Jim Comey had to admit the FBI was wrong. And yesterday, one day ago, the FISA court sends the FBI a letter and says, “Straighten up, get your act together when it comes to the FISA application process.”
 Think about this. Think about this. The attack started then and they’ve continued right up till today. But I want you to think about something. The individual who said the FISA process was fine, the dossier was fine, the Russian investigation was fine, that same individual ran the impeachment process. That same individual staff met with the whistleblower. That same individual is the only guy in Congress who knows who the whistleblower is for sure. And that same individual released the phone records of the president’s personal attorney, released the phone records of a member of the press, and released the phone records of a Republican member of the United States Congress.
 This process has been unfair, it’s been dangerous, and it has been harmful to our country. Democrats have never accepted the will of the American people. Nancy Pelosi made that clear four weeks ago when she called the president of the United States an imposter. The will of we, the people, the 63 million folks who voted for this guy and made him president in an Electoral College landslide. They’ve never accepted that fact.
 We are less than 11 months away from the election. Let the American people decide who should be president. Let the American people decide. 
Well, here we are, on the verge of doing exactly what America doesn’t want us to do and what they feared that you would do. In 2016, I along with 63 million American voters, representing 304 electoral college votes, went to the polls and we raised our collective political middle finger to DC and voted for Donald Trump. Folks like my father who watched this place destroy his profession of community banking, my friends and family in the textile industry that saw their way of life destroyed following NAFTA, or Americans in rural areas whose opportunity in life and voice had been drowned out by the screams of socialist Democrats. Our friends and neighbors living in poverty and crime, broken down, project-based public housing, who for generations have been told by this place, “This is the best that we think that you can do. Here’s your check. God bless you. Now move along.” Those voters.
 And now you want to remove our voice from office. Well, our voice will be heard, and I stand here determined to make sure that it will be, because we will fight back against this corrupt and unfair impeachment process. How dare you, the liberal elites, the condescending bureaucrats, and every other kind of swamp critter in this godforsaken place, tell the American public who the president should be. That’s the job of the American voter, not yours. This whole flipping goat rodeo is a sham and a shame, and it will not be forgotten.
 I rise today on the floor of this magnificent chamber, the very heart of our democratic republic, and I would imagine, Madam Speaker, that every one of us in this chamber, regardless of party, understands, shares a common view that being citizens of this great republic is among life’s most tremendous blessings. We all know that no force on earth is more powerful than the force of freedom. It is our miraculous constitutional system, Madam Speaker, defended by our men and women in uniform, that has safeguarded that freedom for 230 years. Each one of us in this chamber bears a sacred duty passed down to us through generations and affirmed in our oath of office to preserve and protect our Constitution.
 Madam Speaker, our nation’s framers recognized that this republic is fragile and that extreme partisanship can be among the most severe threats to its survival. That is why in Federalist 65, Alexander Hamilton wrote quote, “There will always be the greatest danger that impeachment, the impeachment decision will be regulated more by the comparative strength of parties than by real demonstrations of innocence or guilt.”
 Here, Madam Speaker, our democratic colleagues have been working to remove this president since the day he was elected, searching for an offense on which they could impeach. Failing to find one, Madam Speaker, they have decided to assume one. Rather than attempting to enforce their subpoenas in court, they have also decided to declare it a high crime and misdemeanor when the president of the United States asserts his constitutional privileges.
 The Democrats are asking members of this body to impeach despite the fact that they had presented no direct evidence of any impeachable offense. Let me say it one more time, Madam Speaker. They had presented no direct evidence of any impeachable offense. If anyone in this chamber still believes the Democrats have proven their case, I would urge those members to ask the chairman of the Intelligence Committee, Mr. Schiff, why he failed to appear to answer questions about his report before members vote for impeachment. They might want to know why the author of the impeachment report will not defend it under questioning.
 If the House impeaches here, Madam Speaker, it will create exactly the type of risk the framers cautioned us to avoid. It will mean that divided government can imperil a democratically elected president based on unproven allegations and innuendo in the absence of direct testimony.
 Despite all the rhetoric you’ve heard today, Madam Speaker, passage of these articles of impeachment may permanently damage our republic. From this day forward, a hyperpartisan bare majority can cite this precedent to try to remove a future commander in chief. I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle, Madam Speaker, think of our republic, think of the Constitution, think of the oath that we all swore to protect and defend that Constitution, and vote against these partisan, reckless, and dangerous articles of impeachment.
 Impeaching a President of the United States, this isn’t about some solemn duty tonight. Let’s talk about what this is really about. This has been about a political vendetta, a political vendetta that didn’t just start with the Zelensky call. It started long before that. Just listen to some of the quotes from Democrats in this chamber. Speaker Pelosi, “It’s been going on for 22 months, two and a half years actually. We cannot accept a second term for Donald Trump. What’s more serious is that he can’t win.”
 This isn’t about some crime that was committed. It’s about fear that he might win reelection. That’s not why you impeach a president. Al Green, “I’m concerned that if we don’t impeach this President, he will get reelected.” The list goes on, Madam Speaker. In fact, there are some quotes that I can’t even read on this House floor that some of our colleagues made. Keep in mind, more than a hundred Democrats on this House floor voted to impeach this President before the Zelensky phone call.
 Just look at some of these articles of impeachment that they voted for two years ago. 58 Democrats voted to impeach the President over comments he made about NFL players kneeling for the pledge of allegiance. Impeaching the President, over 50 Democrats voted to impeach him for that. Just this summer, over 90 Democrats voted to impeach the President for comments he made about the squad. So, he makes comments about some other members of Congress who make a lot of comments about him, and 95 members vote to impeach the President of the United States.
 This is a political vendetta. It has nothing to do with the crime committed. There was no crime. Why don’t we listen to some of the witnesses? Obviously we weren’t able to call all the witnesses we wanted, but there were witnesses. In fact, Gordon Sondland, US Ambassador to European Union, he’s mentioned over 600 times in the Schiff Report. He was their star witness. What did he say when asked? “Did President Trump ever tell you personally about any preconditions for anything?” His answer, “No.” ” Any preconditions for the aid to be released?” “No.” “Any preconditions for a White House meeting?” Under oath he testified, “No.”
 Abuse of power, let’s talk about that article of impeachment, Madam Speaker. George Washington Law Professor Turley, who admitted under oath that he voted against Donald Trump, spoke to this claim of abuse of power. In fact he said, “If you make a high crime and misdemeanor out of going to the courts, it is an abuse of power. It’s your abuse of power. You are doing precisely what you are criticizing the President of doing.”
 Abuse of power, there’s a House rule, Madam Speaker, that requires, not allows, but requires that the minority get a day of hearing, which we asked for multiple times. They broke this rule. They didn’t allow us to have a minority day of hearing. They didn’t want to hear the facts about this case, because it was never about the facts because there was no crime. It is about a personal political vendetta.
 Now let’s talk about obstruction of Congress, as they make up these terms to impeach a president because they didn’t find a crime and they were looking. It’s been an impeachment in search of a crime. They talk about obstruction of Congress and saying the President defied subpoenas. Subpoena after subpoena. Let’s go through the departments. The Department of State they subpoenaed. Do you know that literally just four days after the subpoena, the Secretary of State himself responded to your subpoena? The Department of Defense a week later responded to the subpoena. The Department of Energy responded to the subpoena. We can go on and on with all of these agencies. That’s an abuse of power? That’s an obstruction of Congress, responding to your subpoena?
 That’s what they did. They responded. You might not have liked the answer, but that’s not the way this works. You don’t impeach a President because you don’t like his foreign policy, as so many of those foreign policy experts came and testified. This isn’t just about Donald Trump. They don’t just hate Donald Trump, Madam Speaker. They hate the 63 million Americans who voted for this President, the forgotten men and women of this country who have been left behind, Madam Speaker.
 House will be in order. Gentleman may proceed.
 Thank you, Madam Speaker. It’s those forgotten men and women of this country that Washington had left behind. What’s this President doing for them? He’s delivering for them 600 jobs in Pennsylvania, a thousand jobs, workers in Mingo Junction, Ohio, $ 750 million investment for 600 new jobs across this country. Detroit News, “Chrysler, 6,500 new jobs.” That’s what this President is doing to deliver for those men and women of this country who had been left behind. It’s about time somebody stands up for them, and President Trump is. So, it is a political grudge. It is a political vendetta. But if they’re going to go through with this, Madam Speaker, impeachment will not just be a stain on this Democrat majority. Impeachment will be their legacy.
Because we have an electoral college. None of these are reasons to pursue what Chairman Schiff has called a wrenching process for the nation. In fact, Democrats rejected that process emphatically in three specific votes. In December of 2017, Democrats overwhelmingly voted against pursuing articles of impeachment, including the Speaker and myself.
Steny Hoyer: (01:54:36) We did so again in 2018 with over 60% of the Democrats rejecting pursuing articles of impeachment. And again just months ago in July of 2019, 60% of the Democrats said no to pursuing articles of impeachment. Just days before the infamous July 25 telephone call, we did the same with 60% of Democrats voting not to proceed. Credible witnesses, many of whom were appointed to office by President Trump, have corroborated the details and timeline of his abuse of presidential power, which forms the basis of the first article of impeachment in this resolution.
Steny Hoyer: (01:55:39) Instead, I will not recount all of the witnesses or abuses that have occurred. I congratulate my colleagues and Mister Nadler and his committee and Mister Schiff and his committee for setting forth a compelling case. They’ve been laid out fully in the articles before us and by colleagues in their remarks. What I will do is remind Americans that the House provided President Trump every opportunity to prove his innocence, but the witnesses were precluded from coming forth. The witnesses who have personal knowledge did not come either at the President’s request, in which he refused to show up because he thought it was a sham as so many of you have said, or to the committees.
Steny Hoyer: (01:56:50) Instead, he ignored Congressional subpoenas for documents and for testimony by White House officials and ordered subordinates not to cooperate. Perhaps they could have exonerated him. This itself I suggest to you is unprecedented. When President Nixon and Clinton were asked to hand over documents and allow officials to testify, ultimately both complied because it is the law. Such actions of the President can be taken as further evidence of his obstruction and abuse of power. It is in and of itself impeachable conduct, the subject of the second article of impeachment.
Steny Hoyer: (01:57:43) These two articles forced concern two very profound constitutional issues about the abuse of power in our republic. First, whether it is acceptable for the President of the United States, any president, the solicit foreign interference in our elections. There is a difference as to whether he’s done that, and the place to try that is in the United States Senate. We believe strongly there is probable cause to conclude that, to undermine our national security, the integrity of our elections and the integrity of our democracy. Secondly, whether it is permissible for the President to obstruct Congress and act as if he is above the law and immune from constitutional oversight.
 On December 4, the judiciary committee heard the testimony of constitutional law experts who weighed in on these points. Some 1,500 historians have said the same thing. As Professor Noah Feldman said, “If we cannot impeach a president who abuses his office for personal advantage, we no longer live in a democracy. We live in a monarchy or we live under a dictatorship.”
 The votes we are about to take concern the rule of law and our democracy itself. Let us not forget the words of John Locke, so influential to the founders of our republic. John Locke millennia ago said this, “Wherever law ends tyranny begins.” This impeachment asks whether we are still a republic of laws as our founders intended or whether we will accept that one person can be above the law.
 In America, as we have said over and over again, no one is above the law. Only as long as we hold every person accountable for breaking the law, even a president, will that be true. If the House does not act, if we wait and delay, we run the risk of allowing the President’s misconduct. If we believe it to be so to be repeated at the expense of the integrity of our elections, our national security, and our constitutional system of separation of powers.
 Democrats did not choose this impeachment. We did not wish for it. We voted against it. We voted against it once. We voted against it twice. We voted against it three times as recently as July. We did not want this. However, President Trump’s misconduct has forced our constitutional republic to protect itself.
 These votes that we are about to take and the process that will follow in the Senate are not only an assessment of the President’s commitment to the Constitution or to his oath of office, it is as well a test of our own. Damning evidence of the President’s high crimes has emerged. Nevertheless, Republican members of this House and of the Senate have continued to defend the President whose actions seem to many of us to be indefensible.
 All of us feel a sense of loyalty to party. It’s what makes our two party system function. It’s what helps hold presidents and majorities accountable. But party loyalty must have its limits. As evidence of the President’s impeachable offenses have mounted daily, as the witnesses testified, it has become increasingly clear that the limits of partisanship have been reached and passed. Now Democrats and Republicans together face a test before our constituents, our countrymen and our creator.
 The New York Times on October 18 summarized the question now posed to House and Senate, Republicans and Democrats, “Compromise by compromise, Donald Trump has hammered away at what Republicans once saw as foundational virtues, decency, honesty, responsibility, and yes, even civility.” It went on to say, “Will they commit themselves and their party wholly to Mister Trump, embracing even his most anti-democratic actions, or will they take the first step towards separating themselves from him and restoring confidence in the rule of law?”
 Madam Speaker, we have seen Republican courage throughout our history from the Civil War to the Cold War. In 1950, Margaret Chase Smith, the Senator from Maine, a Republican, spoke bravely against the cancer of McCarthyism in her party leading six of her Republican colleagues in a declaration of conscience against their own leadership. “We are Republicans,” they declared, “But we are Americans first.”
 In 1974, one congressman took the brave and principled step of becoming the first Republican on the judiciary committee to support impeaching President Nixon. He said to his colleagues and to the country, and I quote, “It isn’t easy for me to align myself against the President to whom I gave my enthusiastic support, on whose side I’ve stood in many legislative battles, whose accomplishments in foreign and domestic affairs I’ve consistently applauded. But it is impossible,” he went on to say, “for me to condone or ignore the long train of abuses to which he has subjected the presidency and the people of this country. The Constitution and my own oath of office,” he said, “demand that I bear true faith and allegiance to the principles of law and justice upon which this nation was founded.” And he concluded, “And I cannot in good conscience turn away from the evidence of evil that is to me so clear and compelling.”
 My colleagues, that congressman’s name was Larry Hogan Sr. He represented the Fifth District of Maryland, which I now represent. His son is presently the second term Republican Governor of our state. When Larry Hogan Sr. died in 2017, every obituary lead with praise for his act of political courage. Who among us many years from now will receive such praise as a man or woman of courage? Who will regret not having earned it?
 We’ve talked a lot about partisan differences. There is one person who has spoken today who is neither a member of the Republican Party nor the Democratic Party. His name is Justin Amash, who represents a Republican district. He left the Republican Party, and in doing so, he admonished to his colleagues that, “This President will only be in power for a short time, but excusing his behavior will forever tarnish your name.” He spoke on this floor in support of the two articles that we will consider this evening. Neither a Democrat nor a Republican. Representative Amash of course is the only member of this House who has no allegiance to either party but to his country. He is supporting …
 … party, but to his country. He is supporting, as I’ve said, both articles. We need not ask who will be the first to show courage by standing up to President Trump. The question we must now ask is, “Who will be the last to find it?” The pages of our history are filled with Americans who have the courage to choose country over party or personality, but as President Kennedy wrote, “The stories of past courage can teach. They can offer hope, they can provide inspiration, but they cannot supply courage itself.” “For this,” President Kennedy said, “each man, each woman must look into their own soul.” I urge my fellow colleagues in the House, and yes, in the Senate, to look into your soul, summons the courage to vote for our Constitution and our democracy. I understand we will all not see the same conclusion, but to do less betrays our oath and that of our founders who pledged their lives, their fortune, and their sacred honor. Let us neither turn away from the evidence, which to me seems so clear, nor from our good conscience, which compels us to do what in our hearts we know to be right. Let us not allow the rule of law to end, or for tyranny to find its toehold. With our votes today, we can bear true faith and allegiance to the vision of our founders, and we can show future generations what it truly means to be Americans first. Vote yes.
a few weeks ago just off of this floor, I said that a dark cloud was descending upon this body, and today because of the clock and the calendar, it is closing. It is amazing to me what I just heard from the Majority Leader, that Mr. Schiff and Mr. Nadler presented a compelling case for impeachment. If this is a compelling case for impeachment, I’m not sure why we’re here right now. It is not anywhere close to compelling. But you know what is interesting, is what I have heard today.
 The Majority Leader just spoke and said that if the President was given every opportunity to come prove his innocence. I’ll tell you what, Madam Speaker, let me have just a few minutes, stop the clock, and let me go around to the Press Corps and everybody here, and I’m going to accuse you of something. You did it. You did it. You did it. You did it. Now prove us wrong. You did it. Guess what? You don’t want to, because deep down, you know that that’s turning the entire jurisprudence of this country upside down. You’re not guilty until you’re proven. You’re innocent. And today from this floor, we have heard the Majority Leader say, “This President is guilty,” and not the other way around. He is innocent, and these come nowhere close to proving it.
 But what is left of this body? Let’s have an honest conversation, Madam Speaker. What we have found over the past few weeks is it is okay for the majority to tear down a foreign leader because they can’t make their case. They’ve called him a liar, or weak, or worse, or is it was called in the committee, even looked like a battered wife. It is below the dignity of this body and this majority to tear down a foreign leader because they can’t make their case against this one. We have broken rules in this House. Even to this moment, Chairman Schiff and the others have broken House Resolution 660 by not turning over the things that they should be turning over. I still have not got a transcript. We still don’t know what we got, and the White House still has not got their stuff. I guess minority hearing rule days don’t matter either. You see, there is a problem here, because we’re going to vote this tonight while breaking the rules. What a shameful incident. But we also found a creative interpretation of minority rights, we saw the rise of partisanship because of things that have been done even further, and we’ve even seen members smeared in reports by drive by political hacks when they match numbers of the ranking member and the members of the press. That ought to concern every one of you as much as it concerns every one of us. Nothing but a drive by hit.
 But you know something? This Majority Leader also just said, “Wherever law ends, tyranny begins,” but I will say this. In this House, wherever the rules are disregarded, chaos and mob rule actually begin, and the majority has taken that to a new level. It has been said today, “Where’s bravery?” I’ll tell you where bravery is found and courage is found. It’s found in this minority who has lived through the last year of nothing but rules being broken, people being put down, questions not being answered, and this majority say, “Be damned with anything else. We’re going to impeach and do whatever we want to do. Why? Because we won an election.” I guarantee you one day you’ll be back in the minority and it ain’t going to be that fun, because when you look at it, when you actually trash the rules of this House, you ought to really look at, “What did you gain at the end by trashing the institution you claim to love?”
 That’s the things we’ve found out so far, but you know, they’re really careful saying, “Oh, you want to deal in process and process.” As I said last night in the Rules Committee where they didn’t want to listen, I’ll win all process and I will win on facts because we have the truth on our side. Let me remind you that here’s what the process actually says. There was no pressure. Look at the call. President Zelensky, President Trump. No pressure. There was no conditionality. There was nothing done to get the aid, and the aid actually came. There were five meetings, but when you look at it right now, none of which matter, because right now the dark cloud is descending upon this house, and I am fearful, Madam Speaker.
 When I look out in that abyss, I don’t know what I see, but I’ll tell you what I do see. I see coming up, a President who will put his head down even through this sham impeachment and he will do his job. He will put the American people first. He will tell them that, “I care about you.” He will still put the economy first and he will make sure this country stands strong. That’s what I see in this abyss. That’s where we’re going. And Madam Speaker, it is with that hope in the future
I must warn you, I’m about to say something my Democratic colleagues hate to hear. Donald J. Trump is President of the United States. He is President today. He’ll be President tomorrow, and he will be President when this impeachment is over. Madam Speaker, when they accept that, maybe this House can get back to work for the American people. Tonight I rise not as the leader of the opposition to this impeachment, or as the elected representative from the Central Valley of California. I rise as Kevin McCarthy, citizen. No better, no worse than the 4,435 Representatives that are in this chamber, or the 330 million Americans watching this institution make what I believe to be one of the worst decisions we have ever made.
 It doesn’t matter whether you’re a Democrat or Republican, whether you’re liberal or you’re conservative, whether you’re the first generation or the 10th. At our core, we are all American. All of us. We choose our future. We choose what kind of nation we want to be. Here’s our choice tonight: Will we let impeachment become an exercise of raw political power regardless if it damages our country, or will we protect the proper grounds and process for impeachment now and in the future? For months, Democrats and many in the media have attempted to normalize the impeachment process that would remove a duly elected president from office. After three years of breathless and baseless outrage, this is their last attempt to stop the Trump presidency. Madam Speaker, Speaker Pelosi even recently admitted that Democrats had been working on this impeachment for two and a half years. Those were her words, they were not mine. Because they lost to him in 2016, they’ll do anything or say anything to stop them in 2020. That’s not America. That’s not how Democratic Republics behave. Elections matter, voters matter, and in 11 months, the people’s voice will be heard again.
 Impeachment is the most consequential decision Congress can make other than sending our men and women into war. Yet 85 days ago, Speaker Pelosi chose to impeach the President of the United States. She wrote the script and created an artificial timeline to make the details fit. Why else are we doing this just hours before Christmas? If that’s all it was, a rush to judgment, she could be forgiven. But before the Speaker saw one word or one shred of evidence, she moved to impeach.
 In the past, in this body, such a step demanded a vote from all of us from the start, but not only did she move to impeach before she gave this House and the hundreds of millions of people we represent a say in whether to pursue an impeachment inquiry, she threw out the bipartisan standards this House gave President Nixon and Clinton. That is why I immediately sent Speaker Polosi a letter asking her to follow the rules of history, of tradition, and follow those standards that have served America well. What did she say? She rejected it. She rejected it, because Democrats knew a fair process would crumble their case. A fair process would have exposed to the American public what many already knew: Democrats have wanted to impeach President Trump since the day he was elected, and nothing was going to get in their way, certainly not the truth.
 Madam Speaker, Chairman Schiff said he had evidence, more than circumstantial, of collusion. That was false. In January, where we all stood in this body, we stood up, we raised our hands, we swore that we’d uphold the Constitution. And a few mere hours after that, Congress woman Tlaib said she was going to “impeach the mother effer.” Those are not my words.
 A year before taking the majority, Chairman Nadler campaigned to the Democrats that he wanted to be chairman of the Judiciary Committee, where impeachment is, New York Times writes, Madam Speaker, “Because he is the strongest member to lead a potential impeachment.” And Congressman Raskin, a leading Democrat on the Judiciary Committee, one that the Democrats had representing the Rules Committee for these articles just yesterday, told a crowd he would impeach President Trump two days before he was ever sworn into office.
 What we’ve seen is a rigged process that has led to the most partisan and least credible impeachment in the history of America. That is this legacy. Any prosecutor in this country would be disbarred for such blatant bias, especially if that prosecutor was the fact witness, the judge and the jury.
 Madam Speaker, Democrats haven’t just failed on process. They’ve also failed on evidence. I’ve heard a lot of debate on this floor today, but I haven’t heard one member of this body dispute this simple fact: President Trump provided lethal aid to Ukraine. It came before the call, it came after the call, and it continues to this day. President Trump provided Ukraine tank busting bombs. The previous administration, they gave blankets. This is the truth. Meanwhile, the Democrats’ case is based on second hand opinions and hearsay.
 “Simply put, there are no grounds for impeachment.” That’s Constitutional scholar Jonathan Turley. And I would challenge to say he’s probably the most respected, and we all know it. A Democrat who did not vote for the president said under oath there was no bribery, there was no extortion, no obstruction of justice, and no abuse of power. Based on the facts, based on the truth, based on the lack of evidence, Turley called this the fastest, thinnest, and weakest impeachment in the US history.
 Such a definitive answer should be the end of all of this, but Speaker Pelosi is still moving forward with this impeachment without evidence of facts, or truth, or public support. The Speaker says it is out of allegiance to our founders. On this I agree. I agree with the Speaker. We should listen to the founders, and if one does, it’s very clear that this impeachment is unfounded and improper.
 In the Federalist Papers, Alexander Hamilton wrote there would always be the greatest danger that impeachment would be driven by partisan animosity instead of real demonstrations of innocent or guilt. That impeachment would be driven by partisan animosity instead of real demonstrations of innocence or guilt. James Madison, another author of the Federalist Papers wrote, “The danger of legislative abuse must lead to the same tyranny as is threatened by executive abuse.” The founders did not want impeachment to be used for political or partisan battles. If my colleagues do not want to follow the Constitutional high standards for undoing a national election, perhaps you could have followed Speaker Pelosi’s standard, at least the one she promised to follow back in March. It was a sensible standard. She says, “Impeachment is so divisive that the evidence must be overwhelming, compelling, and bipartisan.” Not one of those criterias have been met today. Based on the facts, based on the evidence, based on the truth, this impeachment even fails that Pelosi test.
 Those now who say removing President Trump would protect the integrity of our democracy have it backwards. By removing a duly elected president on empty Articles of Impeachment, Congress will inroad the public trust in our system of government. I understand you dislike the President, his beliefs, the way he governs, and even the people who voted for him. How do I know this? Because you say so day in and day out. In 2016, they even dismissed his supporters, remember, calling us deplorables? Now they are trying to disqualify our voice before the 2020 election. They want to undo the results of the last election to influence the next one.
 As I said, President Trump will still be president when this is all over, but Congress will have wasted months of time and taxpayers’ dollars on impeachment rather than doing what America’s people want us to do. It didn’t have to be this way. Is this why we came here to serve, to trample on due process rights, to issue more subpoenas than laws, to appease the new Democrat Socialist base? That is not leadership. That is raw political politics, and you know it. By refusing to acknowledge the truth or follow the facts, by substituting partisan animosity for real demonstration of innocence or guilt, and by continuing a three-year effort to undermine the President, this impeachment has divided this nation without any concern for the repercussions. Moreover, politicizing these processes discredit the United States House of Representatives and could forever weaken the remedy of impeachment. To again quote Professor Turley, “It is the Democrats’ rush to impeachment on these grounds with unfair procedures that is an abuse of power.” History will write that.
 Madam Speaker, as I said at the beginning, we face a choice. Do you trust the wisdom of the people, or do you deny them a say in their government? Fortunately, the people will have the opportunity to speak up and render their verdict in 11 months to my fellow Americans. To my fellow Americans, if you approve of the way this House has conducted their business, if you want to see your tax dollars, go forward to endless investigations, support this impeachment. But if you want to restore a working Congress like the previous Congress that listened to you and worked to bring the best economy in this country has ever seen, and one that once again will work with the President to get things done for you and your family, then join with us in rejecting this baseless impeachment.
 That’s what’s wonderful about this system of ours. We are a government of, by, and for the people. Always remember, we work for you, not the other way around. Now, I will say this stronger and with more conviction than I have ever said it before. In this time of great trial and tribulation, may God bless America.

