JOURNEY TO LWASA
The Personal Story of the only
White Woman Who Succeeded
in Enntering the Forbidden City

ALEXANDRA DAVID-NEEL
/I

!

Illrrrtratcd with Many Photographs
t& b tbr Author

HARPER &' BROTHERS PUBLISHERS
NEW YORK AND LONDON

MCMXXVII

MY J O U R N E Y

TO L H A S A

C o p y r i ~ h t ,1 9 2 7 , by
H d r p rr and B r o t b r r s
P r i n t r d i n t h r U.S.A.
Firrt Edition

-

A B

To all tho~e
who knowingly or uncon~cioa~ty
have in sny way helped me
daring my long tramps
with loving thankjullzess
this account of my fifth journey
in Thibetan land
i.s dedicated

ILLUSTRATIONS
MADAME
ALEXANDRA
DAVID-NEEL.

...........

Frontispiece
Facing page

MADAME
ALEXANDRA
DAVID-NEEL
WHENSHEWASLIVINOAS
MIT IN THIBET
. ........ . . . .... .

.

. . . HER...
A

4

THECHORTEN
NYIMAPASS
(20,000-FOOT
LEVEL)
BLOCKED
BY T H E SNOWS

52

THEGRANDLAMAOF LHABRANC
TASHIKYIL
MONASTERY
T H E DAYHE
WAS RECOGNIZED
AS THE INCARNATION
O F JAMYAN SHETPA
AND
JNSTALI~ED
AS SUCHTO BE THE SPIRITUAL
A N D TEMPORAL
LORDO F
THE LARGE
MONASTERY
A N D ITS ESTATES
............

84

Facing pagt

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 132

HIB BET AN PILGRIMS
IN NEPAL

MADAME
ALEXANDRADAVID.NEEL.
THE FIRSTFOREIGN
WOMAN
WHO
HAS EVERENTERED
THE FORBIDDEN
HOLYCITYOF LAMAISM.
IS
I N FRONT
O F THE POTALA.
THE PALACE
OF THE DAI.AI
SEENSEATED
LAMA
. HERFACEIS SMEARED
WITH BLACK
LACACCORDINOTO THE
CUSTOM
OF THE THIBETAN
WOMEN
. AT HERRIGHTSIDEI IMA
YONGDEN.
HERADOPTED
SON AT HERLEFTSIDEA L I ~ LI..EIASA
GIRL. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.

INTRODUCTION

M

Y travels in remote parts of Asia, including m y fifth
expedition, a journey to Thibet, of which I give a short

account in the present book, were undertaken as the result of
certain peculiar circumstances, and a brief r6surnC of these
may not be uninteresting to the reader.
Ever since I was five years old, a tiny precocious child of
Paris, I wished to move out of the narrow limits in which, like
all children of my age, I was then kept. I craved to go beyond
the garden gate, to follow the road that passed it by, and to
set out for the Unknown. But, strangely enough, this "Unknown" fancied by my baby mind always turned out t o be a
solitary spot where I could sit alone, with no one near, and
as the road toward it was closed to me I sought solitude behind
any bush, any mound of sand, that I could find in the garden,
or wherever else my nurse took me.
Later on, I never asked my parents for any gifts except
books on travel, maps, and the privilege of being taken abroad
during my school holidays. When a girl, I could remain for
hours near a railway line, fascinated by the glittering rails and
fancying the many lands toward which they led. But, again,
my imagination did not evoke towns, buildings, gay crowds,
or stately pageants; I dreamed of wild hills, immense deserted
steppes and impassable landscapes of glaciers!
When grown up, although I was in no sense a sedentary
scholar, my love of Oriental philosophy and of comparative
religion won me a position as a writer and a lecturer in a Belgian university.
I had already travelled in the East when, in 1910, I was
commissioned by the French Ministry of Education to proceed
to India and Burma to make some Oriental researches.
At that time the ruler of Thibet, the Dalai lama, had fled
ix

INTRODUCTION
from his capital, because of political troubles with China, and
had taken refuge in a n Himalayan village in British Bhutan,
called Kalimpong.
Thibet was not altogether unfamiliar to me. I had been a
pupil of the Sanskrit and Thibetan scholar, Professor Edouard
Foucaux, of the College de France, and knew something of
Thibetan literature. Naturally, I wanted t o see the Thibetan
Pope-king and his court.
I was informed by the British Resident that this was not
easy. For up t o that time this exalted lama had obstinately
refused to receive foreign ladies. But I had managed t o secure
pressing letters of introduction from high Buddhist personages,
and the result was that the desire of the Dalai lama to see
nie grew even stronger than mine t o see him!
Around the monk-sovereign, I found a strange royal household of clerical personages, clad in shining yellow satin, darkred cloth, and gold brocade, who related fantastic stories and
spoke of a wonderland. Although when listening t o them I
wisely made a liberal allowance for legend and exaggeration, I
instinctively felt that behind those dark wooded hills which
I saw before me, and the huge snowy peaks which pointed
their lofty heads beyond them,-there was, truly, a land different from all others. Needless to say, my heart leaped with
the desire to enter it! It was in June of the year 1912 that I
had my first glimpse of Thibet. T h e path which I had preferred t o the road most usually taken starts from a low point
in Sikkim, amid tropical vegetation, wild orchids, and the
living fireworks of fireflies. Gradually, as one climbs, the
scenery changes, nature becomes severe, the singing of birds
and the noisy buzzing of ineects subside. T h e huge trees, in
their turn, are unable t o struggle in the rarefied air of the
summits. With each mile the forest becomes more stunted,
till the shrubs are reduced t o the size of dwarfs creeping- on
the ground, while atill higher up they cannot even continue
to exist. T h e traveller is left amidst rocks richly embroidered
with brightly coloured lichens, cold water falls, half frozen
.

x

INTRODUCTION
lakes and giant glaciers. T h e n from the Sepo pass one suddenly discovers the immensity of the trans-Himalayan tableland of Thibet, with its distant horizon of peaks bathed in
strange mauve and orange hues, and carrying queerly shaped
caps of snow upon their mighty heads.
What an unforgettable vision! I was a t last in the calm
solitudes of which I had dreamed since m y infancy. I felt
as if I had come home after a tiring, cheerless pilgrimage.
However, the very peculiar natural aspect of Thibet is not
the only reason for the attraction which that country has exercised over me. Like many Oriental scholars, of whom I am
but an humble colleague, I deeply regret the loss, in their
Sanskrit original, of a number of M a h l y l n i s t Buddhist Scriptures. These are more or less available in Chinese translations, but what is the extent of the Thibetan translation and
what original philosophic and mystic works have been written
by Thibetan authors, either in accordance with M a h f y l n i s t
doctrines or contrary to them, is as much terra incognita as the
land of Thibet itself. Thus, hunting after books and old manuscripts and seeking meetings with the literati of the country
became my self-assigned task. Anyhow, things could not end
there. T h e unsuspected is the daily fare of the traveller in
Thibet, and my researches led me face to face with a world
still more amazing than the landscapes I had beheld from the
high passes through which one enters Thibet. I refer t o the
mystic anchorites, the dwellers on the frozen summits. B u t this
is a subject to be treated elsewhere.
Strange as the fact may appear, I must confess that, unlike
most travellers who have attempted to reach Lhasa, and
have failed t o reach their goal, I never entertained a strong
desire to visit the sacred lamaist city. I had, as I have said,
met the Dalai lama, and as for researches regarding the literature, philosophy, and secret lore of Thibet, these things could
be pursued more ~rofitablyamongst the Literati and mystics
'Where the Himalayan range ends. Not to be confused with the Sepo
Khang la in eastern Thibct, mentioned in Chapter 111.

xi

INTRODUCTION
in the freely accessible and more intellectual parts of northeastern Thibet, than in the capital.
What decided me to go to ~ h a s awas, above all, the absurd
prohibition which closes Thibet. A prohibition--one could
hardly think it possible-that extends over a gradually increasing area is now placed on foreigners who wish t o cross territories over which they could travel a t will a few years ago,
and where, in a still more ancient period, missionaries have
even owned properties.'
1

As an instance, the French traveller, M. Bacot, crossed the Tsarong
province and visited Menkong in 1909. Captain F. Kingdon Ward
visited the same region in I 91 I and again in 19 14. (In 1924 he went
to Pemakoichen, being at that time commissioned by the British Government or, a t least, allowed by it to travel in Thibet.)
In 1860 the French Roman Catholic missionaries had established several
quarters in the Tsarong province.
Bouvalot, with Prince Henri d'orlians, Dutreuil de Rheims, with
M. Fernand Grenard, Sven Hedin and others, who failed in their attempts
to reach Lhasa, had nevertheless crossed part of the northern Thibetan
solitudes before being stopped. No one, nowadays, could openly proceed
so f a r in the country.
But, in more remote periods, Lhasa itself has been open to those who
did not shrink from the hardships of such a journey. Several missionaries
and lay travellers not only entered the sacred lamaist city but made prolonged stays there. T o support my statement, I quote here what has becn
written on the subject by Edmund Candler, who accompanied the British
military expedition to Lhasa in 1904:
"It must be remembered that Thibet has not always been closed to
Until the end of the 18th century, only physical obstacles
rtrangers.
stood in the way of an entry to the capital. Jesuits and Capuchins
reached Lhasa, made long stays there and were even encouraged by the
Thibetan Government. T h e first Europeans to visit the city and leave
an authentic record of their journey were the Fathers Grueber and
d'orville, who penetrated Thibet from China in 1661 by thc Sining
road and stayed in Lhasa two month-Friar
Oderic of Portone is supposed to have visited Lhasa in 1325, but the authenticity of this record is
open to doubt. In 17 1 5 the Jesuits Desideri and Freyre reached Lhasar
Desideri stayed there thirteen years. In 1719, arrived Horace de la
Penna and the Capuchin Mission, who built a chapel and a hospice, made
reveral converts and were not finally expelled till 1740. T h e Dutchman
Van der Putte, first lay man to penetrate to the capital, arrived in 1710,
and stayed there some years. After this we have no record of a European
reaching Lhasa until the journey in 181 I of T h o m a Manning, the first
and only Englishman to reach the city before this year. Manning arrived
in the retinue of a Chinese general whom he had rnet at Phari Jong and
whose gratitude he had won f o r medical services. He remained four

...

xii

INTRODUCTION

My wanderings in Thibet began with a few excursions
across the tableland which extends immediately t o the north
of the Himalayas. A few years later I paid a visit to the
Penchen lama, better known to foreigners under the name of
Tashi lama. I was most cordially welcomed. T h e high lama
wished me t o stay with him for a long time, if not forever.
He offered me free access t o all libraries, and a lodging either
in a nunnery or in a hermitage or in a house in the town of
Shigatze itself. I knew, alas! that he was not in a ~ o s i t i o nto
carry out his kind intentions, and that I could not, therefore,
take advantage of the wonderful opportunity he wanted to give
me for Oriental research.
The Tashi lama is a learned, enlightened, and liberalminded man. People who are not in the least acquainted
with him have said that he is a backward and superstitious
monk, the enemy of foreigners and all that pertains to Western civilization. This is completely wrong. It may be that
the great lama of Tashilhumpo does not like one particular
nation, that he resents the servitude in which the British government keeps his country. N o one can blame him for being a
patriot, and it is still more difficult t o find fault with him
because, as a Buddhist, he is a pacifist and does not encourage
those who increase each year the taxes paid by the poorest
villagers in order to support the ridiculous army they have been
led to organize to serve the interests of the very people who
seize their land.
A Westerner may have ideas about the necessity or usefulness of colonization, the subjection of less civilized people, and
be somewhat justified in his views. But the Asiatic who sees
his country enslaved is still more justified in lacking friendly

...

months in the capital
in 1846 the Lazarist missionaries Huc and
Gabet reached Lhasa." (Tire Unveiling of ~ h a s a . )
These two Frcnch priests were the last travellers to enter Lhasa freely.
After the British expedition, apart from political officers and their doctors, no foreigner has been allowed to g o to Lhasa.
Amongst Europeans who went to Thibet, may also be named Bogle in
1 7 7 4 and Turncr in , 7 8 3 . These two did not visit Lhasa. They were
Sent from India to Shigatze as emissaries of Warren Hastings to the
Taahi lama.

lriii

INTRODUCTION
feelings toward the people who have robbed him of his possessions, whatever methods, diplomatic ruses or sheer v i e
lence they may have used.
As for myself, I profoundly despise everything which is connected with politics, and carefully avoid mixing in such matters.
I n writing this I only wish t o d o justice t o my kind host.
If he had been the ruler of Thibet, instead of being compelled t o fly from Tashilhumpo t o save his life, he would have
gladly opened the country t o explorers, savants and all honest
and well-meaning travellers.
As a result of my visit t o Shigatze, the inhabitants of a village situated about twelve miles down the hill from the hermitage where I lived had t o pay immediately a fine amounting t o
two hundred rupees for having failed t o inform the British
authorities of my departure. T h e Resident who sentenced
them did not take the trouble t o consider that these men had
no knowledge whatever of my move, since I started from a
monastery situated in Thibetan territory, three or four days'
march away from their village. T h e latter revenged themselves, according to their primitive mentality of savages, in
partly looting my cottage. I complained in vain. N o justice
was accorded me and I was given fourteen days t o leave the
country.
These uncivilized proceedings made me wish to retaliate, but
in a witty way, befitting the spirit of the great city in which
I had the privilege of being born.
A few years later, while travelling in Kham, I fell ill and
wished to proceed to Bhatang t o be nursed there by the foreign
doctors a t the Mission hospital. Bhatang is an important
Thibetan town under Chinese control, as is also Kanze, in
which neighbourhood I happened to be at that time. But since
the Lhasa troops had conquered the region between these two
places, it had been declared forbidden to foreigners.
The officer in charge of the frontier post enquired if I carried a permit from the British consul a t Tachienlu.1 The

' A Thibetan town at the extremity of the Kham province, being
included in Szetchoan.
xiv

INTRODUCTION
"Great Man of Tachienlu," he called him. With this permit,
he added, I could go wherever I liked in Thibet, but he could
not let me proceed without it.
However, I continued on m y way, only t o be stopped a few
days later and t o be told again about the "Great M a n of
Tachienlu," holder of the keys of the "Forbidden Land." I n
the meantime my health grew worse. I explained my case
quite freely t o the Thibetan officials with all the realistic
details necessary to describe a severe attack of enteric, in
which the language of Thibet is indeed rich. B u t i t was of no
use. The fear of the "Great M a n of Tachienlu" overpowered
the natural kindness of the terrorized officers with whom I had
to deal. But although 1 had t o give up all hope of being
attended by the doctors a t Bhatang, I refused energetically t o
retrace my steps, as I was ordered to do. I decided t o go
to Jakyendo, a market town situated on the Lhasa road, beyond
the conquered area, still in the hands of the Chinese. Jakyendo
lies at the extreme southeast of the "Desert of Grass"; I knew
that I could find there-if I lived t o reach it-the pure milk
and curd which might cure me. Moreover, I suspected that
a trip through the territory newly brought under the Lhasa
rule might prove interesting. I therefore kept firm t o my
resolve. A full account of the days spent in argument would
sound like an epic poem of olden days, half comic, half sad.
At last, when each and all had clearly understood that unless
they shot me they could not prevent me from going t o
Jakyendo, I went on my way through the newly forbidden
enclave. My hopes were not disappointed; that trip was
interesting in all respects, and became the starting point of a
new period of wanderings truly wonderful.
While a t J a k ~ e n d oI met an unfortunate Danish travelier
who, like a number of others, had been stopped near Chang
Nachuka, the frontier post on the trade-route from Mongolia
to Lhasa. T h a t gentleman, as his journey had been cut short
against his will, wished to return quickly t o Shanghai. T h e road
he should have followed crosses the very tract of land on
which I had fought my battle with the authorities. Before

INTRODUCTION
he had even reached it, soldiers who had been posted t o watch
the passage prevented him from going forward. T h e poor
traveller turned out t o be another "Wandering Jew" and was
compelled to recross the "Desert of Grass."
H e had to organize a caravan t o carry food and baggage
for a journey lasting a t least one month, through a wild region
which has a particularly bad name for being haunted by large
gangs of armed robbers. And even then he reached the extreme
northwest of the Chinese border, while he had wanted to
come through t o the coast. This meant another journey of
about two months!
This meaningless tour could have been avoided by following the direct road, which can be travelled in a sedan chair,
without any caravan, food and inns being found on every
day's march. Thus half the total time would have been saved.
Such stories as this were not without their effect upon me.
More than ever I decided t o enter once more this land SO
jealously guarded. I therefore planned to reach the banks of
the Salween, and to visit the "hot valleys" of Tsawa rong and
T s a rong. Would I have gone from there to Lhasa? Perhaps,
but more likely I would have followed some track toward
Lutzekiang or Zayul and travelled, in an opposite direction, a
part of the much longer journey which I was to complete
successfully eighteen months later.
I started from Jakyendo a t the end of the winter, travelling
on foot and accompanied by only one servant. Most passes
were blocked by the snow, and we experienced dreadful hardships in negotiating some of them. W e had happily surmounted material obstacles, crossed the frontier post under
the very windows of the official who guarded it, and were nearing the Salween, when we were stopped. I myself had not
been detected, but my luggage, containing some instruments
and various requisites for botanical research, betrayed me. This
small caravan was in charge of Mr. Yongden, a young Thibetan, the faithful companion of many of my journeys, and my
adopted son. Though he travelled several days' march behind
me and trusted t o be taken as a trader, the contents of the
xvi

INTRODUCTION
boxes he carried revealed his connection with me. H e was
stopped; men were despatched t o look for me through the
country, and thus my trip was brought t o an end.
It was then that the idea of visiting Lhasa really became
implanted in my mind. Before the frontier post t o which
I had been escorted I took an oath that in spite of all obstacles I would reach Lhasa and show what the will of a woman
could achieve! But I did not think only of avenging my own
defeats. I wanted the right to exhort others to pull down
the antiquated barriers which surround, in the center of Asia,
a vast area extending approximately from 79" t o 99" longitude.
Had I spoken after my attempts had failed, some might
have thought that I did it out of vexation. Now that success
has been mine, I can calmly expose the obscure situation of
Thibet to-day. Perhaps some of those who read of it, will
remember that if "heaven is the Lord's," the earth is the
inheritance of man, and that consequently any honest traveller
has the right t o walk as he chooses, all over that globe which
is his.
Before ending, I wish to assure m y many English friends
that my criticism of the part their government has played in
this situation is not the outcome of bad feelings against the
English nation as a whole. Quite the opposite. I have, from
my early youth, when I spent my school holidays on the
Kentish coast, liked the company of English people, as well
as their ways. My long stay in the East has greatly increased
that feeling, to which I now add a sincere gratitude for so many
hearty welcomes in so many houses where kind ladies have
endeavoured to make me feel as if I were in my real home.
In their country, just as in mine or in any other one, the policy
of the government does not always represent the best side of
the nation's mind. I suppose that the citizens of Great Britain
and the Dominions are as little acquainted with the devious
proceedings of political offices regarding far-off colonies or protectorates, as is the rest of the world. It follows that they
cannot resent criticisms which are not addressed to them.
xvii

INTRODUCTION
What I have said may even astonish many of them, especially Christian missionaries, who may rightly ask why a selfstyled Christian nation should forbid the entrance of the Bible
and its preachers into a land where she is a t liberty to send
her troops and to sell her guns.

I must add a word regarding the spelling of the Thibetan
names in this book. I have merely given them phonetically,
without trying to follow the Thibetan spelling, which is very
misleading for those who are not acquainted with that language and capable of reading it in its own peculiar characters.
As an instance I will say that the word pronounced naljot is
written rnal byor, the name of dolma is written sgrolma, and
so on. As for the name Thibet, it may be interesting t o know
that it is a word unknown in the Thibetan language. Its origin is not quite clearly traced, but Thibetans ignore it completely. They call their country Pod yyul and themselves Pod
pas?
To be pronounced P6.

xviii

M Y JOURNEY T O LHASA

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA

CHAPTER I

F

AREWELL!

. . . Farewell! . . . We

are off! At the
bend of the path I look back once more, one last time.
Standing a t the gate of his residence I see the foreign missionary who welcomed Yongden and me a few days ago when,
without being in the least acquainted with him, we begged his
hospitality. Some anxiety may be detected in his kind smile
and his intent gaze. T o what extent have we succeeded in
deceiving that most excellent man? I cannot tell. H e does
not know the object of our journey, there is n o doubt about
that. But the programme we laid before him was vague
enough to awaken the suspicion that we were trying to conceal
the fact that we were to undertake a dangerous expedition!
Where would we be going, alone, on foot and without luggage,
he wonders. H e cannot guess, and I am certain that the
names of the mysterious wayfarers who slept for a few nights
under his roof will be remembered in his prayers. M a y his
own wishes be ever fulfilled! M a y he be blessed for tEe
warmth that his cordiality adds t o the glorious sunshine that
lights my fifth departure for the forbidden "Land of Snow!"
Farewell!
We have turned the corner of the road, the
Mission House is out of sight. T h e adventure begins.
This is, as I have said, my fifth journey into Thibet, and
very different, indeed, have been the circumstances and manner
of these successive departures. Some have been joyful, enlivened by the babbling and broad laughter of the servants and
country folk, the jingling of the bells hung on the mules' necks,

...

M Y JOURNEY T O LHASA
and that rough yet gay fuss that the people of Central Asia
so love. Others were touching, grave, almost solemn, when,
dressed in the full lamaist garb of dark purple and golden
brocade, I blessed the villagers or the dokpar who had congregated t o pay for the last time their respects t o the Kandhoma %f foreign land. I have also known tragic departures,
when blizzards raged in the solitudes, sweeping across aweinspiring white landscapes of impassable snow and ice, .soon
t o be wrapped again in dead silence. But this time the bright
sun of the Chinese autumn shines in a deep blue sky, and the
green wooded hills seem t o beckon us, promising pleasant walks
and happy days. With our two coolies carrying a small tent
and an ample supply of food, we look as if we were starting
for a mere tour of a week or two. I n fact, this is precisely
what we have told the good villagers whom we have just left,
namely, that we are going for a botanical excursion in the
neighbouring mountains.
What would be the end of this new attempt? I was full of
hope. A previous experience had proved t o me that in the
disguise of a poor traveller I could escape notice. But although
we had already succeeded in leaving quietly behind the baggage brought with us t o cross China, we had yet to assume
our full disguise and (most difficult task) t o get rid of the
two coolies whom we were compelled to take with us to avoid
the gossip which would certainly have spread in the Mission
House amongst the servants and neighbours, had they seen
a European lady setting out with a load upon her back.
I had, however, already thought of a way of freeing myself
from the coolies. M y plan depended, it is true, upon certain circumstances over which I had no control, and any little
unforeseen incident might wreck it; but I could not think of
a better one, and s o relied upon my good luck.
We had started late, and our first stage was rather short.
We encamped on a small and sheltered tableland near which
1

Dokpas: literally, inhabitants of the solitudes, the cowmen who do not
practice husbandry.
' A kind of incarnated fairy.

2

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
one could get a beautiful view of the highest peak of the
Kha Karpo range. T h e place is called "the Vultures' Cemetery," because once a year the Chinese slaughter hundreds of
these birds there to procure their feathers, with which they do
a big trade. They attract the birds with the carcass of a horse
or a mule as bait, capture them with nets, and when the poor
creatures are caught in the meshes they beat them t o death.
The plucked bodies are then used as bait to snare other vultures, which in turn share the fate of the first comers. This
plucking of vultures' feathers lasts for a whole month amidst
putrefaction and pestilence. Happily, when I reached that
spot it was not the vulture-killing season, and I saw only
heaps of bleached bones amongst the short and thorny vegetation which covers the ground.
Nature has a language of its own, or maybe those who
have lived long in solitude read in it their own unconscious
inner feelings and mysterious foreknowledge. T h e majestic
Kha Karpo, towering in a clear sky lit by a full moon, did not
appear to me that evening as the menacing guardian of an
impassable frontier. I t looked more like a worshipful but
affable Deity, standing a t the threshold of a mystic land, ready
to welcome and protect the adventurous lover of Thibet.
The next morning I saw again the huge peak of Kha Karpo
shining at sunrise, and it seemed to smile encouragement t o me
with all its glittering snows. I saluted it and accepted the omen.
That night I slept a t the entrance of a gorge in which a
tributary of the Mekong roared loudly-a wild, picturesque
spot inclosed between dark reddish rocks. T h e morrow was
to be a decisive day. I t would see me a t the foot of the track
that leads to the Dokar Pass which has become the frontier of
the self-styled "Independent Thibet." M y scheme was t o be
. Would the cootested there. Would it work as I hoped?
lies leave me without suspecting anything of my designs?
Would the situation of that village of Londre, about which I
had but little information, favour an escape by night over a
small path leading, higher up on the hills, to the pilgrimage
road round the Kha Karpo, which crosses the Dokar Pass!

..

...

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA

. . . A number of

questions arose in m y mind, each with its
own anxiety. However, as I lay on the ground, in the small
tent that Yongden had made himself i n the Lolos' country,
that particular happy feeling of ease and freedom which the
stay in solitary places always brings t o me wrapped my mind
in bliss and I went to sleep calm as a child lulled by fairy tales.
Next morning, leaving my old friend, the Mekong, we
turned westward through the rocky gorge a t the entrance of
which we had slept. Soon it opened out into a narrow, densely
wooded valley. T h e weather was sunny and walking easier.
We passed two mounted Tibetan traders, who gave us scarcely
a glance. Perhaps they thought we were Chinamen, for Yongden and I both wore Chinese dresses. Nevertheless this first
meeting, precursor of the many which were to follow, gave us
a little shock. Although we were yet in that part of Thibet,
still under Chinese rule, wherein foreigners can travel freely,
though a t their own risk, it was most important that rumours
of my wanderings in the neighbourhood of the border should
not spread. For the Thibetan officials, once warned and on
the alert, would have the road carefully watched, which would
greatly increase the difficulties of our entering the forbidden
area.
A little before noon we came in sight of Londre. H a d we
been alone, Yongden and I, we could have easily avoided passing through the village by hiding ourselves in the wood until
evening. It would have saved us much trouble and fatigue,
for between the steep slopes of the Kha Karpo range which we
were about to climb, there was but the width of this torrential
river which we had followed upwards and crossed several times
in the narrow gorge. But such a thing was out of the question,
for I had expressly told the coolies that I intended to go into the
country of the L ~ u t z etribes t o collect plants, and the road t o
Lutze-Kiang went through Londre and there turned in a direction exactly opposite to the Kha Karpo.
Very disturbed, and reflecting that each step added a difficulty to my approaching flight, I followed the two Thibetans
who meant to take me to a wooded tableland about ten miles

frs

Thrsrn Live tip. k c h d Thm W b Grsy the Ckmrrclg chs Lwtm Farm
r &meiai Cmm C
m
W %d3ymPltn

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
higher, where they knew of a good c a r n ~ i n ~ - ~ r o u n As
d . far
as they could see, Yongden and I scarcely cast a glance a t the
country in the direction of the Dokar Pass; but in reality we
did our best to impress on our memory the shape and ~eculiarities of the landscape which would help us when we had to cross
it on the next night.
Our passage in Londre was as inconspicuous as we could
have wished. Not one of the villagers whom we met appeared
to take any particular notice of us. This most happy circumstance was perhaps due t o the fact that an American
naturalist worked in the vicinity and employed a large number
of people. N o doubt the villagers thought that we were on
our way to join him as assistants.
After having proceeded f o r ' a few miles on the Lutze-Kiang
path, turning my back t o my real goal, I thought it imprudent
to proceed farther. Safety required that plenty of time be
allowed for the long tramp on the opposite side of Londre, so
that dawn should find us far away from the village, having,
if possible, reached the ~ i l g r i m a g eroad. Once there, we could
easily pretend t o have come from any northern Thibetan part
we cared to name, in order t o get round the Sacred Mountain.
I had hesitated a long time in choosing the road I would
take in order t o enter independent Thibet. T h e one I preferred, or perhaps I should say the one which circumstances
seemed to be thrusting upon me, is followed every autumn b y
many travellers. By taking it I foresaw that I should run
the danger of frequent meetings. Not that this inconvenience
was without its favourable aspect, since our tracks could
be more easily lost amongst those of pilgrims from various
Thibetan regions, each of whom spoke in different dialect, and
whose womenfolk had a variety of different dress and coiffures.
'I'he little peculiarities of my accent, my features, or my clothes
would more easily be overlooked on such a road, and if enquiries were to be made, they would have t o embrace so many
people that confusion might very likely follow t o my advantage.
But of course I sincerely hoped that no enquiry would be made,

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
and that we should meet as few people as possible during the
first few weeks of our trek.
W e had reached a point where the road commanded the view
of the valley a t the entrance of which Londre was built. It
was covered with a dense jungle in the middle of which flowed
a clear stream. A trail descended t o it from the road, and it
was here that I paused for a few minutes, wondering once
more how I should get rid of my two unwanted followers. I
soon made up my mind.
"My feet are swollen and sore," I said t o the men. "I cannot walk any longer. Let us go down near the stream, and
we will make tea and camp.''
They were not astonished. Truly my feet had been hurt
by my Chinese rope sandals, and the coolies had seen them
bleeding when I had washed them in a stream.
We went down, and I chose a small clearing surrounded by
thick bushes and there pitched my tent. T h e presence of the
water, and the protection afforded against the wind by the
thickets would certainly have justified my choice of the spot
had the two peasants or any other persons questioned me about
the selection of this rather gloomy place.
A fire was lighted, and I gave the coolies a good meal.
Yongden and I endeavoured t o swallow a little tsampa,'
although the imminence of our departure, the fear of seeing
our plans upset a t the last minute, had left us little appetite.
However, when the meal was finished, I ordered one of the
men to go up the hill to cut some dry logs, since only twigs
could be found near us. When he had gone I explained to
his companion that I had no need of him because I meant
to stay there about a week collecting plants on the neighbouring mountains, before I went to Lutze-Kiang. When necessary, I added, I would hire a man from the villagers of Londre
to carry my luggage. H e understood and, well pleased with
good wages, he started immediately for home, convinced, of
course, that the man who had gone to cut the wood would
remain to attend on me.
1

6

Flour made of roasted barley, the staple food of Thibetans.

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
The latter was told exactly the same thing, when he came
back with the wood, but as I did not want him to meet his
for some time, lest they should discuss my strange
$an of camping alone, I added that, as I could not proceed a t
once to Lutze-Kiang, he was t o carry there a letter and a
parcel. From there, he could return t o his village by a direct
road, without coming back to Londre.
The parcel contained a few clothes, a gift t o the poor. M u s t
I relate that, shut in the small tent, Yongden and I had again
examined our baggage and, finding it still too heavy, we had
given up the waterproof ground-sheet that was meant t o keep
us, when sleeping, from direct contact with the damp or frozen
ground? Yongdon and I discarded also the only pieces of spare
clothing we had kept. Nothing was now left us except the
clothes we were wearing. W e had not even a blanket, although
we knew that, during the winter, we should have to cross
high, snowy ranges, passes of over 18,000 feet; and as much
food as possible had to be carried, since we did not wish t o
show ourselves in the villages for at least a fortnight. Later
on, when crossing desert regions, a full load of provisions would
again be indispensable; success and even life might depend
upon it.
The small package was addressed t o a missionary whom I
had never seen and who had probably never heard of me.
Such was my plan of ridding myself of my last coolie. H e
went away, as satisfied as his comrade, with a few dollars in
his pocket, believing that the other peasant had been sent on
some errand in the neighbourhood from which he would return
before evening.
What these two said, a few days later, when they met after
having rounded the same range, one on the northern and
his friend on the southern side, must have been amusing, but
I never heard it!
-

-

1\11 necessary arrangements had been made. We stood,
Yongden and I, in the thick jungle, alone and free. T h e novelty of our situation bewildered us a little. For months, dur-

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
ing the long journey from the sands of Gobi t o Yunnan, we
had been discussing the way in which we could "disappear,"
as we used to say, and assume other personalities. Now, the
hour had come and we were to start t h a t very night for the
Dokar Pass,' which now forms the border of independent
Thibet.
"Let us drink a cup of tea," I said to the young lama, "and
then you will start on a scouting tour. A t any rate, we should
reach the foot of the K h a Karpo track without meeting anybody, and be out of sight from the village before daybreak."
Hastily I revived the fire. Yongden brought water from
the stream, and we prepared the Thibetan tea, with butter
and salt, in the simple manner of poor travellers who cannot
enjoy the luxury of a churn to mix it.
I may as well explain immediately the composition of our
cantine. W e had only one aluminum pot, which was our kettle,
teapot, and saucepan all in one. There was also one lama
wooden bowl for Yongden, a n aluminum bowl for myself,
two spoons, and a Chinese travelling case containing one long
knife and chopsticks, which could be hung from the belt. T h a t
was all. W e did not intend to indulge in refined cooking.
Our meals were t o be those of the common Thibetan travellers;
that is t o say, tsampa, mixed with buttered tea, or eaten nearly
dry, kneaded with butter. When circumstances would allow,
we would make a soup. Forks were useless with such a diet,
and even our two cheap spoons could not be produced freely,
as they were of a foreign pattern such as only affluent Thibetans
possess. Arjopas (pilgrims travelling on foot and often begging
their food), as we pretended t o be, have none. I n fact, these
spoons became, later on, the occasion of a short drama in which
I nearly killed a man. I shall tell the story in due course.
T h e tea drunk, Yongden started. Hours passed; night had
fallen. I remained seated near the fire which I did not dare
t o let blaze, fearing that it might be seen from afar and betray
our presence. T h e remains of the tea, kept as a last cordial
to cheer our departure, were simmering on the embers; the ris1
Eighteen thousand four hundred feet above eea level.

8

MY J O U R N E Y T O L H A S A

ing moon tinged with bluish and russet hues the melancholy
depths of the valley. All was silence and solitude.
Into what mad adventure
What had I dared to dream?
was I about t o throw myself? I remembered previous journeys in Thibet, hardships endured, dangers that I had confronted.
It was that again, or even worse, which lay before me.
And what would be the end? Would I triumph,
reach Lhasa, laughing a t those who close the roads of Thibet?
Would I be stopped on my way, or would I fail, this time
forever, meeting death a t the bottom of a precipice, hit by
the bullet of a robber, or dying miserably of fever beneath
a tree, or in a cave, like some wild beast? Who knew?
But I did not allow gloomy thoughts to overpower my mind.
Whatever might be the future, I would not shrink from it.
"Stop here! G o no farther!" Such were the commands of
a few Western politicians, to explorers, savants, missionaries,
scholars, t o all, in fact, except their agents, who travelled freely,
wherever they were sent, in this so-called "Forbidden Land."
What right had they t o erect barriers around a country which
was not even lawfully theirs? Many travellers had been stopped
on their way to Lhasa, and had accepted failure. I would not.
I had taken the challenge by my oath on the "iron bridge"'
and was now ready to show what a woman can do!
As I was thus musing, Yongden emerged suddenly from the
bushes. Strangely lit by the moon, he looked a little like a
legendary mountain spirit.
Briefly he reported the result of his scouting: To avoid the
village we should have to cross a rickety footbridge higher up
the valley, and follow the stream downward on the opposite
bank. Perllaps it was possible to make a direct descent by
wading in t h e river itself past any village house that might be
perched upon the bank. This would certainly be a short cut,

...

...
...

1

In a previous attempt, which was stopped after a f e w weeks' journey
and led me through a vcry interesting part o f the province o f Kham.
I had thcn every opportunity o f studying at first hand the conditions o f
the inhabitants, as the Lhasa government had succeeded in establishing
complete asccndcncy there aftcr its victory over the Chinese.

9

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
but, as people were in the fields nearby, he had not been able to
test the depth of the water.
Whichever road we might choose, we could not avoid passing
in front of a few houses between the small bridge on the stream
flowing out of the valley where we pitched our camp, and the
large one on the tributary of the Mekong, which we had seen
on our arrival.
When we had crossed that second bridge, we could look for
the bypath which was t o lead us t o the pilgrimage road.
Yongden had seen it clearly, winding u p the steep slope, but
he had failed t o discover the exact point from which i t branched
from the bank of the river.
With these vague ideas, I hurriedly set out. It was already
late and we could not guess how many miles we should have
to tramp that night until we could reach a spot which afforded
some degree of safety.
Was my load heavy on my shoulders? Were its rough
straps cutting my flesh? Indeed they were! I felt it later,
but a t that moment I was not aware of it. I was aware of
nothing. I knocked myself against sharp rocks, I tore my
hands and my face in the thorny bushes. I was dead to all
sensation, stiffened, hypnotized by the will t o succeed.
For several hours we trudged in the valley. We had first
climbed up t o the main road, and then, skirting isolated farms,
tried the passage in the stream. It proved impossible a t nighttime. T h e water was rather high, the current swift and breaking against boulders. We should have fallen in two minutes.
And so we again directed our steps in search of the footbridge. Several times we lost our road. T h e trails that my
young friend had marked in the day were difficult t o find by
the dim light of the moon, veiled in mist. At last we found
ourselves on an easy but very winding track on the opposite
bank. It led tortuously beside the stream, and we were exasperated by the precious moments lost in following it. When
a t last we caught sight of the village, we put our loads down,
drank a draught of the clear water that flowed past us, swal10

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
lowed a granule of strychnine to rouse fresh energy in our tired
bodies, and took the dreaded passage on the run.
A bridge, the houses, the second and larger bridge
safely passed. W e stood a t the foot of the wild and solitary
hill on which a narrow, twisting trail led to other tracks and
paths and roads leading into the very heart of Thibet, the
Forbidden Capital of the Lamas.
A dog had given a low, suppressed bark when we were near
the river-a single dog, in t h a t village where a dozen or more
of these rather fierce animals wandered to and fro all night!
It reminded me of the Indian tales relating the nightly flight
of those sons of good family, who, in quest of the "Supreme
Deliverance," abandon their home t o take t o the religious life
of the sannyasin. I n order, we read, to make their flight
easier, "the gods lulled the men t o sleep and silenced the dogs."
So had it been with me, and smilingly I returned thanks to the
invisible friends who protected my departure.
In our haste to be off we overlooked a small landslide just
in front of us, which was in reality the beginning of the bypath
leading upward that had fallen in. W e searched for the road
along the river bank until we neared a steep gorge which
afforded no means of ascent and we were thus forced t o return
to the bridge. Another half-hour was wasted here; we were
in full sight of the village and trembled for fear of being
noticed! Moreover, the right track, which we found a little
after midnight, happened to be extremely steep and sandy.
Heavily loaded as we were, we could only make slow progress,
in spite of our strenuous efforts, being compelled to stop frequently, out of breath. I t was terrible, and my feelings could
well be compared t o those of a nightmare in which the dreamer
imagines himself t o be pursued by murderers and tries his
utmost to run away, but cannot move his feet!
Toward the end of the night we reached a gloomy spot
sheltered by large trees. Our steps awakened a number of big
birds perched on the branches, which flew away noisily. A
streamlet flowed nearby and Yongden, who had not enjoyed a

...

...

11

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
minute's rest since the morning of the previous- day, craved a
refreshing bowl of tea.
Thirst parched my mouth and I shared the desire of my
companion, but nevertheless I was most reluctant to stop.
This dark place, the only one where water was obtainable, did
not appear t o me very safe. It might possibly be haunted
by leopards and panthers, of which there are many on these
hills. Above all, I wished t o put as great a distance as possible
between us and Londre. H a d I been alone, I would have suffered no matter what agony, and would have crept on my
knees if I could n o longer stand, rather than delay a single
minute. But the exhausted lama's fatigue overcame prudence.
Nothing could be done; he fell rather than sat upon the wet
ground, and I went in search of fuel.
T h e hot drink was most comforting. Unfortunately, his new
sense of well-being lulled my companion to sleep. I could have
cried. Each minute wasted on that path diminished our
chances of success. However, in such cases nothing is t o be
done; sleep is a necessity that cannot be resisted. Nevertheless, Yongden was not allowed a long rest and we continued
on our way.
T h e solitude reassured us. T h e sun had long since risen and
we were still climbing when we heard a voice above us. Then,
without exchanging a single word, panic-stricken, Yongden and
I threw ourselves out of the path and rushed like scared game,
through the thick jungle, our only idea being t o escape from
sight.
I found myself, without being able t o remember how I had
come there, on an old stony landslide surrounded by thorny
bushes. Of my companion there was no trace.
However, he had not gone far and we soon found each other.
But we did not dare to walk again in broad daylight. Woodcutters, cattle drovers, or others might be going down t o Londre
and talk about us there. Pilgrims might perhaps follow that
path, overtake us, notice something peculiar in our appearance,
and repeat it in gossip on the other side of the border. We
expected the worst, anxious to give bad luck as little chance as
12

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
possible. We therefore spent the first day of our journey
squatting under the trees. From our resting-place we could
hear, higher up, invisible folk driving equally invisible cattle.
A wood-cutter appeared on an opposite slope. I watched him
for some time; he sang prettily as he piled his logs and doubtless was not in the least aware of the agony he was causing
a foreign woman. T h e autumn foliage probably screened us
completely from the gaze of distant observers, and the villagers
did not suspect our presence. Nevertheless, in my fear of having been seen, I was filled with the most pessimistic ideas. I
almost believed that failure was awaiting me and that I had
come here in vain from far away Turkestan, across the whole
of China.
Soon after sunset we began our nocturnal tramp. When
darkness came we saw several fires higher up on the hill. We
could not be sure that the winding path which we followed
would not lead us to them, and we were very much worried.
Coal men or, perhaps, pilgrims were camped there and the
prospect of arriving a t night amongst Thibetans by the Londre
track did not please us in the least; for such a meeting would
have been the occasion for many embarrassing questions from
inquisitive people.
We remained for a long time seated on the grass in a clearing, waiting for the moon t o rise. We could not see the trail,
yet all the time we could see these alarming, glowing fires!
They gave a peculiarly disquieting and demoniacal aspect to the
black, indistinct landscape of pines and huge rocks jutting
around them in the dark starlit sky. How thankful we were
when we saw them far behind us and were certain that we
could not meet the people near them.
Soon afterwards we arrived a t a small chorten marking the
junction of our track and the pilgrims' road. T h e latter was
a rather large mule path, and walking became easy and pleasant. T o have reached this spot without meeting anybody was
indeed fortunate. If my luck held out, I might, with equal

' Thibetan monument erected to hold religious objects or the remains
of great departed lamas.

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
fortune, cross the Dokar Pass and reach the district of MenLong. 1 could then congratulate myself on having made the
most important step toward final success, for in that country
many roads cross, bringing together travellers from various
directions. Our tracks would be easily lost, and with a little
cleverness we could lose ourselves in the anonymous mass of
poor Thibetan pilgrims whom the officials d o not condescend
t o honour with s o much as a single glance.
Thirst was torturing us still more than upon the previous
night when we reached a large roaring mountain torrent which
cut across the road. A small bridge spanned it rather high
above the water which rushed, white with foam, amidst a
chaos of boulders. Yongden thought only of his thirst, and
wished t o go down the road immediately to drink. This was
dangerous, since, in the darkness, he could not see the obstacles
which might cause him t o stumble and roll into the torrent,
which would have immediately carried him away. I remonstrated with the obstinate fellow, but he argued that as water
was s o scarce, seeing that we had found none since the previous
night, it was indeed possible it would be hours before we struck
water again. I could not contradict him, but thirst was preferable t o being drowned. I therefore ordered him t o cross the
footbridge. On the other side, the bank was less steep and
an easy way down could be seen. Although time was precious,
and I did not like t o light a fire s o close t o the road, I was
thinking of halting, when, t o our dismay, we heard a voice
calling us. It was that of a man who offered us red embers
to kindle a fire, and even a cup of ready-made tea t o begin
with!
We remained motionless, speechless. We had talked in English a few minutes before. Had that man heard us?
"Who are you?" asked another voice. "Why are you walking a t night!"
We still could see nobody, but the sound came from a huge
tree. I thought that it might be hollow and that travellers had
taken it as hostelry for the night.
''We are pilgrims," answered Yongden. "Dokpas from

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
Amdo. We cannot bear the heat of this country. When we
walk in the sunshine, we get fever. So we tramp around the
Holy Hill a t night."
That was quite a plausible reason. T h e man who had asked
the question asked nothing more, but Yongden continued:
"And you, who are you?"
"We, too, are pilgrims."
"Well, good-bye," I said, t o cut the talk short. "We will
still walk a little, and camp the next time we find water."
So ended the first chance meeting on our way t o Lhasa.
We congratulated each other that i t did not happen while we
were still on the track climbing from Londie, but a t the same
time we learned that even night marches were not absolutely
secure, and that we had t o be prepared a t any hour and a t any
place to explain, in a way that awoke n o suspicion whatever,
the reason of our doings.
We continued our way for several hours without finding
further traces of water. I felt exhausted and walked mechanically, half asleep. Once I thought that we were approaching
a hut built on the road and turned over in my mind what I
would say and d o if I met Thibetans. But the "hut" turned
out to be a passage between two great rocks. A t last utter
exhaustion compelled us to rest. T h e site was not in the least
fit for camping; the exceedingly narrow trail skirted a stony,
natural wall, and, on the other side, ended perpendicularly.
We lay down on a rocky mattress whose roughness we unpleasantly felt through our clothes and endeavoured t o remember
even in our sleep that we were perched on the edge of a precipice whose depth was unfathomable in the night.
In such wise we spent the second happy night of our wonderful adventure. Day had not yet broken when Yongden and
I loaded our burdens on our backs and continued the tramp
through the forest. More than twenty-four hours had now
elapsed since we had eaten and drunk. We had not yet become
accustomed to prolonged fasts, and this first one was hard t o
bear.
We proceeded as fast as we could in order to reach some

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
stream before hiding ourselves for the day. It was a race with
the sun, which was now rising rapidly. It appeared some-.
where above a summit hidden in the thick foliage, and its heat
soon began to light and warm the underwood. T h e time had
come for us to take shelter in the forest. T h e men whom we
had met during the night might overtake us, and that would
mean a long talk, a lot of explanations, and, what was still
worse, our showing ourselves in broad daylight.
W e crept between the thickets t h a t extended beyond some
do-chodl until we were completely invisible from the path.
Looking down, I discerned some blue smoke floating far below
between the trees. A distant noise of running water could
also be heard. Travellers or wood-cutters were enjoying their
morning meal, an idea which so increased our hunger that
Yongden decided to risk himself on the road with our kettle
in search of water.
While alone, I hid our baggage under some branches, and
lay down flat on the d r y leaves and threw others over me.
Any wanderer through the wood could have passed very near
without detecting my presence. Indeed, this happened to
Yongden when he came back with his kettle full of water.
I had fallen asleep and he roamed a long time in the jungle
looking for the place where he had left me. H e did not dare
t o call aloud, and had I not been awakened by the noise he
made in wading through the d r y leaves and got up, he would
have wandered still longer.
We had discussed, during the previous night, the question
of our disguise. Till then we had worn our Chinese robes,
which would not have compromised us even if I were rccognized as a white woman, for, as a rule, all foreigners in these
remote parts of Thibetan China dress in this way. But we now
hoped that no one who could detect us would come along our
road. Our fellow-travellers would probably be pilgrims from
various regions of Thibet, and our best plan was t o merge a t
once in their number, like inconspicuous, common arjopar.
Literally, offerings of stone-i.e.,
cairns laced on tlie top of the
hills and many other places as offerings to the gods.
1

16

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
The arjopas are those mendicant pilgrims who, all through
the year, ramble in thousands across Thibet, going from one to
another of its sacred places. T h e arjopa, not necessarily, but
for the most part, belongs t o the religious order-either
as a
monk or as a nun. H e or she may be a true pauper or even
a professional beggar, but the mass of them have homes and
means of subsistence in their own countries, although they cannot afford t o ride on horseback during their pious journeys.
Some arjopas start without any money and rely entirely upon
charity during their pilgrimages; others are not entirely penniless, but keep carefully the few coins they possess for the
unlucky days when alms-givers are few or none. A third category is rich enough t o purchase the simple food of the ordinary
Thibetan diet. However, for the most part, the pilgrim passes
easily from one t o another of these different classes. A lama
capable of reading the Scriptures, who can perform the different lamaist ceremonies, and can, above all, act as exorcist
and fortune-teller, may a t any time f i ~ dhimself s o well provided with food, clothing, and even money, that he may dispense with begging for several months. On the other hand,
the owner of a heavy purse may fall ill, be delayed on his
way by other circumstances, or be robbed-a
thing which
happens frequently-and have t o take his place, in the same
day, amongst the poorest of his colleagues.
I had chosen to travel as an nrjopa because it is the best
disguise to pass without attracting notice. Yongden, who is
an authentic and well-read lama, looked his part perfectly,
and I, his aged mother, who had undertaken a long pilgrimage
for devotional reasons, constituted a rather touching and sympahetic figure. These considerations had their full weight
when I decided upon our disguises, but-and why should I not
confess it ?-the absolute freedom of the arjopa, who, like
Diogenes, carries all his possessions with him, and who is
free from the care of servants, horses, luggage, sleeping each
night where he pleases, attracted me greatly. I had had a
taste of it during a previous short trip in Kham, and wished
'0 enjoy it more fully and longer. And now that I have thor-

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
oughly experienced the joys and. the hardship of the arjopa's
life in Thibet, I deem it to be the most blessed existence one
can dream of, and I consider as the happiest in my life those
days when, with a load upon my back, I wandered as one of
the countless tribe of Thibetan beggar pilgrims.
After a copious meal of tmmpa, dried meat and buttered tea,
we began to disguise ourselves. After all, was it really a disguise? Yongden clad himself as a lama, as he did when residing
in a monastery. As for me, I had for years accustomed myself
to wearing Thibetan clothes, the only novelty being in the
coarseness of the plain white lay dress I put on for the
journey.
T h e headgear caused me some little annoyance. I had
brought n o hat from Amdo, thinking that I would purckase
one a t Atunze. But I did not pass that town, and I could
not find a hat in any of the villages on our way. For the
time being, an old red belt would suffice, twisted around my
head in the fashion of the Lutzchiang. T h e boots which I
had brought from Kham showed, as well as the peculiar
material of my dress, that we hailed from that province and
provided me with a certificate of Thibetan nationality.
T w o years previously, in another attempt of the same kind,
I had cut my plaits; now, in the part of a lay woman, 1
required long ones. I therefore lengthened mine, which had
not yet grown long enough, with jet-black yak's hair, and
in order t o match that colour I rubbed a wet stick of Chinese
ink on my own brown hair. I hung large earrings on my
ears, and they altered my appearance. Finally I powdered my
face with a mixture of cocoa and crushed charcoal, to obtain
a dark complexion. T h e "make-up" was rather strange, but
suppliers to the theatrical trade, from whom I could have
obtained better ingredients, have not yet opened branches in
the Thibetan wilds !
At sunset, we gathered our baggage and emerged from the
jungle full-fledged Thibetan wayfarers.

' Yak,
18

the long-haired ox of Thibet.

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
The next morning we found as a camping ground, after our
long tramp, only a most unhealthy place nearly level with a
stream, and which was certainly part of its summer water-bed.
We could not see the ground beneath us, i t being hidden by
reeds which had been burned in a forest fire and which had
fallen in an inextricable entanglement now covered by a thick
layer of green moss. W e ate, b u t owing to the nearness of
the road, we did not dare t o light a fire, and drank the icy
water that had an unpleasant taste.
How long had I slept? I could not say. When I opened
my eyes I saw a man clad in Thibetan dress, wearing a soft
felt hat of foreign shape, as Thibetan soldiers outside of
Lhasa do.
In less than a second many thoughts dashed through m y
a r e still on
still slumbering mind: A Thibetan soldier-we
Chinese territory-what
is he doing here?
Has he been
sent across the border t o watch us? . Have the Thibetan
officials been informed that we are proceeding toward the
A t any rate, I must convince him that I
Dokar Pass?
am a true Thibetan; and, as the best means of convincing
him, I pretended to blow my nose with m y fingers.
That gesture thoroughly awakened me, and what I had
taken to be the soldier turned out to be nothing more than a
rock and a few branches.
But I had not the heart t o laugh a t myself. I had been too
much frightened, and t o make things worse, I began t o shiver
in a way which left no doubt in my mind that I was in for an
attack of fever as the result of our prolonged stay in that
damp spot.
I looked a t my watch. I t was only three o'clock, but days
were short a t this time of the year, and the waning moon did
not rise until the middle of the night. During the next fortnight we should have to chance our luck and proceed partly
during the day, or we would linger too long in the country,
which would indeed he dangerous.
Late in the evening we arrived a t a peculiarly beautiful spot,

. .

...

...

19

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
a kind of wide, natural clearing surrounded b y ramparts of
thickets. Shadowed b y giant trees which veiled an intense
darkness, it looked like a temple meant for some solemn occult
rites and made me think of the Druids.
Pilgrims used t o camp there; one knew i t from the large
number of mi deussal to be seen scattered about. Some sybaritic devotees had gone so far in their search for comfort as
t o spread a double thickness of fir-tree branches around the
primitive hearths, in order to provide themselves with a carpet,
and these dark-green patches on the golden brown leaves
which autumn had strewn over the ground still further
increased the impression one had of being in a mysterious
sanctuary.
Big logs lay scattered around, and without taking much
trouble we soon enjoyed a most glorious fire. Invisible
animals were roaming in the jungles; we could hear the noise
of the small branches they broke as they stalked through the
bushes. Sometimes, we heard steps quite near us; maybe one
of the four-footed wanderers was watching us, but we could not
see it in the circle of darkness that surrounded the clearing and
veiled its farthest corners. I trusted, nevertheless, that no
beast would venture near the heap of glowing coal from which,
a t times, flames leaped high and clear.
With flaming branches in his hands, Yongden went twice t o
fetch water from the river. I told him to chant some Thibetan
liturgy all along his way, s o that, together with the bright
light, the noise would frighten away any leopards or panthers
which might be prowling around. T h a t grave psalmody in
the depths of the forest matched perfectly the peculiar atmosphere of the place and aroused in me the desire t o perform
there the fearful rite which Thibetan hermits 1101d in high
esteem as a way of liberating one's mind from all attachment.
It is poetic in spite of its stern symbolism, and Thibetans fully
1

Literally, men's resting p l a c e i . e . , few stones that have been al-ranged
by travellers to place a cauldron on the fire, which one sees, blackened
among ashes, along the trodden tracks at the spots where water can be
got and wayfarers use to camp.
20

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
initiated into its meaning smile a t the terror of the novices,
who train themselves in its practice amongst dread and inspiring surroundings.
I ignored the danger of being overheard by travellers, if any
such should happen on the road, as had been my experience
the night when I had imprudently spoken English near a
torrent. If anyone saw me forming the figures of the mystic
dance and calling upon the gods and the demons, he could but
be convinced that I was a Thibetan naljormal and, being
struck with terror, would certainly not remain in the vicinity
to ask idle questions.
After a short rest, we did our best to start before daybreak,
but the waning moon's light could not penetrate the thick foliage. W e were not able t o find our way, and had to return t o
our camp and wait.
As we ascended the sacred mountain the forest changed its
character. I t became darker and wilder than in the neighbourhood of Londre. Our night tramp was wonderful; we felt as if
we had entered another world. Born of the moon's rays,
filtering through clouds and branches, or perhaps of other and
unknown causes, strange shapes rose before us. Often we saw
the glimmer of fires hidden in the recess of the mountains.
Moving shadows were silhouetted indistinctly in the dim light;
peculiar notes were heard.
Once, while walking ahead, I saw two tall figures coming
toward us. Retracing my steps, nearly crawling on the ground
to avoid giving ourselves away, I dragged Yongden along the
dry bed of a high-banked stream, and there we stayed,
crouching amongst the stones and the fallen leaves, watching
the intermittent glare of a fire a t the foot of a distant huge
perpendicular rock.
Early in the morning, a t the time when Thibetan travellers
start for the day's march, we listened attentively, trying t o
detect sounds of human voices or the noise of animals. But
the forest remained silent. I was more puzzled than ever
One who has embraced the religious life and follows the mystic path.
hraljorpa is the masculine.

21

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
and, to gratify my curiosity, we went a long way off the trail
to the big rock.
It was surrounded by thorny bushes a n d a few dead trees.
N o suitable place for a camp could be found near by. The
rock itself had been decorated long ago-as are many in Thibet
-with
the image of Padmasambhava, and some mystic
formulz, but these had nearly disappeared beneath the moss.
Of fire, embers, ashes, or charred wood, there was n o trace.
I noticed a long, narrow crevice between the ground and the
rock, and here the stone seemed blackened with smoke. I
thought, however, it was rather its natural colouring. Yongden and I roamed more than a n hour in a n attempt to discover
the entrance of a cave beneath the rock. W e found none.
While we were busy a few blackbirds alighted on some
branches and appeared to follow our doings with a mocking
interest, moving their heads and uttering chirps like laughter.
Their noise was unpleasant and Yongden grew angry.
'These little black fellows," he told me, "do not seem to be
natural birds. They must be the same mischievous mi ma yin
who play tricks a t night with fire and music t o delay us on
the road, and have now taken another shape."
I smiled a t his imagination, but he was quite in earnest.
IIis great-grandfather had been a somewhat famous magicianlama, and I believe the blood of that ancestor was now alive
in him. H e recited a zung (magic formula) with the necessary
ritualistic gesture and, strangely enough, the birds flew away,
shrieking loudly.
"You see," triumphed the young lama, "I knew it! It is
unwise of us t o stay here."
I smiled again; but as t o the necessity of pushing on I
could not argue. T h a t very night we meant to cross the
border of "the Forbidden Land."
T h e approach to the pass was most beautiful. Early morning found us in a large valley white with frost. On our left,
strangely shaped rocky hills seemed crowned with turreted

'

1

Mi ma yim-literally,
cording to Thibetans.

not man. One of the six classes of beings, ac-

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
castles. At first sight I thought that a monastery had been
erected there for the use of contemplative lamas, as there are a
large number in Thibet, but I soon realized that Nature was
the only responsible architect, and had herself built these
dignified yet graceful edifices.
I very much regretted that the nearness of the border and
the extreme care I had t o take in order t o avoid being seen,
prevented me from camping a few days on this site. I-would
have liked t o find a way by which I might climb into these
fairy dwellings. Knowing Thibet and its people as I did, it
would have been n o surprise to me t o have found a hermit in
this evrie.
Proceeding toward a ridge which seemed t o be the summit
of the pass, we crossed several abundant springs. Water was
flowing everywhere on natural terraces supported by rocky
walls. I n summer, dokpas bring their cattle t o these heights.
We had seen signs of them in the valley, but a t this time of
the year silence reigned supreme.
The belief that we had only a short distance t o cover to be
at the end of our climb infused fresh strength in us. We
walked fast and soon arrived a t a bend of the track, nearing
the spot which we had taken for the pass. Here we saw that
we had only reached another broad valley which, far away,
was fringed by slopes which doubtless led to the Dokar Pass,
but the pass itself could not yet be seen. This was an unpleasant surprise. We were tired, for the troubles of the previous
night had not allowed us much rest. Moreover, we did not
deem it prudent t o proceed during the middle of the day in
that open place, in which we could be observed from every
side. A chaos of huge rocks, very likely the product of some
landslide that happened centuries ago, could, fortunately, be
used as a refuge. Stunted fir trees were still thriving there,
in spite of the high level, and served us as a shelter.
From that place I could still see the tops of the fairy palaces
that I had admired from the valley beneath, but I was now
above them and thus could see that the other side of the hill
was much less steep.
J

M Y JOURNEY T O LHASA
I have myself lived for several years, in caves or rough cabins,
in the grassy desert and a t the foot of the everlasting snows,
the strange and wonderful life of the Thibetan mystics. I feel
deeply its particular attraction, a n d all t h a t is connected with
it immediately awakens m y interest. Now it appeared t o me
that those natural edifices were inhabited. A mysterious message seemed t o be conveyed to m y mind, as I sat gazing
intently a t them, a kind of silent talk between speakers invisible
t o each other. W h a t did i t matter, after all, if on that hill
there lived a human being like myself? W h a t I heard was
the thousand-year-old echo of thoughts which a r e re-thought
over and over again in the East, and which, nowadays, appear
t o have fixed their stronghold in the majestic heights of
Thibet.
W e set out again in the middle of the afternoon. We felt
confident that no one would be on the road a t that time.
Thibetans always manage t o cross these high passes a t noon,
to allow time t o go far enough down on the other side to
avoid excessive cold and lack of fuel during the night.
W e were not ordinary travellers, and the usual rules dictated
by prudence could not be part of our own code, which consisted in one single article: to azloid detection. For the rest,
we relied on our robust constitutions and the strength of our
will.
During the short halt that we made a t the foot of the final
climb we noticed a man leading a horse, who had reached the
beginning of the upper valley, near the place where we had
camped, a n d from which I had gazed a t the rocky castles and
allowed my mind to dwell on their imaginary inhabitant. The
man sat down when we moved on, and we lost sight of him. I
may say a t once that the following day he should have caught
U P with us, for there was only the one pilgrims' road and circumstances had delayed us long on our way. But he never
appeared. W e asked some pilgrims who overtook us about
him, and they answered that they had met nobody. This fact
somewhat confirmed my intuition as to the presence of a
hermit in the vicinity. T h e man with the horse was probably

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
his jinda (supporter), who brought him a supply of food. He
had left the track and would perhaps remain a few days with
the lama. T h a t the majesty of that solitary site had been
appreciated by an ascetic was not astonishing, for one who
knew the '(Land of Snows" and its religious folk.
The Dokar Pass now stood before us, most impressive
against a gray evening sky. I t is a depression in a gigantic
barren range whose Cyclopean slopes sag like cables outstretched across rivers to serve as bridges. T h e knowledge
that it marks the threshold of the guarded region added t o
the sternness of its aspect.
The ground around the pass is most sacred to the gods, and
the Thibetan pilgrims who walk along the track have built
countless tiny altars, made of three standing stones, and a
fourth one as a roof, under which offerings are made t o
spirits.
On the pass itself and following the neighbouring ridges,
the mystic flags which can be seen on all the heights of Thibet
were planted in exceptionally large numbers. I n the falling
light they looked alive, belligerent, and threatening, like SO
many soldiers scaling the crests, ready t o fight the presumptuous traveller who would venture on the road t o the Holy City.
As we reached the cairn marking the top, a gust of wind
welcomed us-the violent, icy kiss of the austere country whose
severe charm has held me so long bewitched and t o which I
always return. Turning successively toward the four quarters,
the zenith and the nadir, we uttered the Buddhist wish, "May
all beings be happy!" and began to climb down.
A blizzard descended upon the peaks. Black clouds rolled
hither and thither, turning into sleet. We hurried in our effort
to reach the base of this steep and inhospitable slope before
nightfall.
But darkness came early. We missed the path winding
between the landslides, and found ourselves slipping helplessly
with crumbling stones under our feet. It became dangerous
to proceed in that way, with a speed that we could not control.

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
So, having succeeded in pulling up, we fixed our pilgrim staffs
before us in the ground as a point of support. Clinging to
each other for safety, our loads still on our backs, we remained
squatting upon the snow, which fell from eight o'clock in the
evening till two the next morning. Then a last melancholy
quarter of the moon rose between the clouds and we descended
t o the wooded zone.
W e were resting, seated a t the edge of a glade where a
forest fire had destroyed the big trees and which was now
covered with short shrubs, when I noticed the forms of two
long animals with phosphorescent eyes, which crossed the
track several times and finally disappeared in the direction of
the river. They were quite distinctly visible in the moonlight
and I pointed them out t o Yongden. H e saw them well, but
persisted in saying that they were deer, though their shape and
the peculiar glimmer of their eyes indicated carnivorous wild
beasts. I delayed a little, t o avoid an undesirable encounter,
and then we continued our descent t o the river.
We were exhausted and there was no certainty that we
could soon find water again, as the stream entered a gorge and
our trail climbed up on the hill. So, in the hope that the
animals would let us alone if they were still in the vicinity, we
lit a fire t o make tea.
While we were drinking, we heard some noise behind the
bushes, but we were beginning t o be accustomed to the prowling of wild beasts around our camps. Yongden fell asleep.
I decided to watch, but my eyes were heavy, and closed in
spite of my efforts.
I was dozing, when the sound of a low sniff awakened me.
A few feet from the place where we were lying, one of the
animals with glimmering eyes was looking a t us, and I could
see its spotted coat!
I did not awaken Yongden. It was not the first time that
1 had seen creatures of that kind at such close range. They
seldom attack men unless provoked or wounded, and I
convinced that they would never harm me or those who were
near me.

26

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
T h a t nocturnal meeting reminded me of another one which
I had had, in broad daylight, several years before, with a
superb tiger.
"Little thing," I murmured, looking a t the graceful animal,
"I have seen, near to, a much bigger ~ r i n c eof the jungle
than you. G o t o sleep and be happy." I doubt whether the
"little thing" understood me. However, after a few minutes,
it went leisurely away, its curiosity satisfied.
We could not allow ourselves a longer rest. T h e day had
broken and it was time for us to retire to a hiding-place, away
from the trail. I awakened Yongden and we went. A few
minutes after we started the young man pointed out with his
stick something under the trees.
"There they are," he said.
The pair of spotted fellows were indeed there. They turned
their heads toward us, looked for a little while, and then went
their way along the stream, while we climbed the path.
As we went up, the aspect of the forest changed once more.
It was now much less dense. T h e sun that had risen lit the
undergrowth, and through the openings in the foliage we
could see the opposite bank of the river beneath us. W e
noticed with astonishment that it seemed t o be cultivated, but
cultivated in a fanciful way, more in the fashion of gardens
and parks than of common fields.
I t was a glorious morning, and we enjoyed our walk so much
that we continued it long after the hour a t which we usually
sought shelter. T h e river bent suddenly and we confronted a
village built on a slope a t the foot of which our path turned
along the stream. A few isolated houses could even be seen
quite near us on the sides of the path itself.
What village was this? It was not charted on any map and
none of the people of the country from whom we had cleverly
got information, before our departure, had ever told us a word
about it. Its architecture was peculiar. We did not see cottages and farms, but villas and miniature palaces surrounded
by small yet atately looking parks!
The strange town was bathed in a pale golden light. No

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
sound of human voices, no noises of animals, were heard in it.
But, now and then, a faint silvery jingling struck our ears.
We were amazed. Were we in Thibet or had we reached
fairyland?
We could not, however, remain standing in the path. People
might corne along, and t o be seen so near the frontier posts
was imprudent. It was imperative, for safety's sake, that we
should delay our investigations until the evening. Once more
we retreated amongst the bushes and the rocks. There, overtired, I sank on the moss and fell asleep, feverish and raving
a little.
Our impatience to see again the fantastic village, our fear
of having t o cross an inhabited place, and the desire to look
for ways t o avoid it, brought us on the trail before sunset
a t the spot on which we had stood in the morning.
Where were the graceful villas, the stately little palaces and
the sunny gardens?
T h e forest was empty. A severe landscape of dark trees
extended before us, and a cold breeze, wailing among the
branches, took the place of the harmonious jingling.
"We have dreamed," I said to Yongden. "We did not see
anything this morning. All that happened while we were
asleep."
"Dreamed!" exclaimed the lama. "I will show you how we
have dreamed. This morning, while you were looking at the
miraculous town, I drew a sungpo [magic sign] on a rock
with the spike of my staff, s o that neither gods nor demons
could oppose our progress. I shall find it again." And he
looked on a flat stone a t the foot of a fir tree. "There it is l"
he triumphed. "Look!"
I saw the roughly drawn sungpo. It silenced me for a
moment.
"My son," I said, proceeding forward, "this world itself is
but a dream, and so . 9 ,
"I know," interrupted my companion. "Nevertheless, the
sungpo and the ngags [magic words] that I uttered while draw-

. .

28

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
ing it, have dispelled the mirage. It was certainly the work of
some who wished to delay us!"
"Yes, like the blackbirds," I continued, laughing, "and maybe
the small leopards, too."
"Like the birds, yes!" affirmed m y son, decidedly vexed.
"As for the leopards, I d o not know. They looked honest
beasts. Anyhow, we will soon be out of these Kha Karpo
forests and confront true villages instead of dreamland ones,
and true men, officials, soldiers, and others, instead of mi ma
yin. Let us see, then, if we can manage our business with
them as cleverly as I have done with the folks of other
worlds."
"Have no fear about it," I replied, seriously, "I will look after
that."
"How will you d o it?" he asked.
"I will make them dream and see illusions, just as the mi ma
yins did to us."
And I really did so when, a few days later, circumstances
brought us before Thibetan officials.
The miracle which had allowed us to proceed for a whole
week on a road followed by many pilgrims, without meeting
a single soul, could not last forever. Arrived a t one of the
minor passes on the Kha Karpo range on our way down to
the Salween, we suddenly heard a jingling of bells behind us.
It was a party of pilgrims, men and women, with two horses,
who had overtaken us. We exchanged a few words, and each
of us walked devoutly around a latza in which flags bearing
printed mystic formulz were stuck. T h e pilgrims, who were
not impeded by loads on their backs, went down the trail
more quickly than we did and, when we arrived a t the bottom
of a pretty, narrow valley in which several clear streams met,
we found them already seated, drinking tea.
We had now t o begin the apprenticeship of the career we
had momentarily embraced. It would have been contrary to
the cllstom to pass the place without taking our meal, for the
A cairn placed on the summits as offerings to the gods.

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
time had come for tshaphog-that
is to say, the halt in the
middle of the day.
I looked round, ready t o go collecting wood to make a fire,
but the kind pilgrims, seeing a lama, invited us to join them.
I felt delighted t o be free to remain quietly seated, enjoying
the scenery, which was grand.
I n a frame made of several ridges of forest-covered mountains, one above and behind another, a gigantic peak of the
Kha Karpo towered, dazzling white, its summit pointing straight
into the dark-blue sky. Before it, our group seemed a
gathering of tiny animals crawling on the ground. The sight
was really crushing, and did indeed remind us of our nothingness. Yet the good pilgrims gave their whole attention to
their food and some gossip, and turned their backs on the
exalted abode of the gods they had come from afar to worship. As for myself, I was lost in a trance of admiration,
forgetting that my attitude might look stranwe t o the Thibetans.
?
As a matter of fact, it did, and they enquired why I did not
eat.
''Mother is with the gods," answered Yongden, who put a
warm bowl of tea before me t o bring me down t o the world
of men.
A woman, misunderstanding his answer, put a new question
about me.
"Is the mother a pamo?" l she asked.
I was afraid that my companion would not be able to suppress his laughter a t this funny idea, but he replied, gravely:
"My father was a nagspa; she was initiated his sang yum."
All looked a t me with due consideration, and the chief of
the party sent me a piece of dried meat. Until then he had
offered us only tsampa, but the new personality that we revealed t o them inspired respect in these benighted Thibetans.
1

A female medium who is said to be possessed by gods or demons who
speak through her mouth. When the medium is a male he is called ~ l m v o .
I
A most dreaded kind o f sorcerer, expert in magic formulz, who
believed to command demons, and able to kill any being from afar.
a
Literally, "secret mother." T h e respectful title given to the spouse of
a tantrik lama.

30

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
Nagspa are dreaded for the occult powers they are supposed
to possess, and to incur their displeasure or that of their
kindred, even for involuntary offences, is a serious matter.
So, having suddenly become grave, they made us a little
present of butter and trampa and hastily went their way, desirous to escape our honourable but dangerous company. This
was just what we wished.
The following day brought us t o the limit of the Kha Karpo
forests. From the top of a hill, we saw Aben on the bank of
the Lhakang-ra river. This place, where tKe Chinese used t o
keep a small garrison, had become, we had been told, a Thibetan frontier post. Our difficulty was now n o more a question of wandering through solitary forests, but of crossing a
populated village which, with its outlying cultivation and isolated farms, stretched for several miles.
Our old trick of tramping by night was no longer of any
use here. N o doubt dogs frequented the road and were likely
to be fierce a t night, and in any case noisy. One cannot expect
a miracle to happen a t every turn. Until then we had enjoyed
such wonderful luck that prudence naturally prompted us t o
make allowances for it and not count too much upon its protection. T o be caught roving a t night would have got us into
trouble. Enquiries might follow and we feared nothing more
than these. Our best plan, we thought, was t o cross Aben
before daybreak. By so doing we should get the benefit of
darkness, and as Thibetan travellers are in the habit of starting
a t these early hours on their day's march, anyone who might
hear us passing by or see us, would find in it nothing extraordinary.
We studied the aspect of the valley from the top of a woody
hill in order to be able to proceed quickly in the dark. Fearing to arrive too early in the vicinity of the village, we
remained a long time seated there, with the result that, since the
road wound, in its descent, more than we had suspected, night
fell long before we had reached the bottom of the valley.
For the first time since we had left Londre, the weather was
really unpleasant, a cold wind pierced our clothes, and low

31

JOURNEY

LHASA

clouds foretold snow. W e no longer knew the exact whereabouts of the village. Bushes conspired with the darkness to
mislead us. Several times we sat on the ground with our loads
on our backs, overpowered by sleepiness. But we could not
allow ourselves even the poor comfort of a nap. Before taking
whatever rest we might enjoy that night, we needed t o ascertain
that we had reached the Lhakang-ra road and that, hurrying
through the village a few hours later, we would have only to
walk straight before us. Unfortunately, we failed to find the
road amongst the intersections of the bypaths. At length we
found ourselves near some houses and were compelled to stop.
Snow began to fall. T o spread our small tent over us like a
blanket was out of the question. Once untied, we could not
have repacked our loads properly in the dark, and might have
left behind us some compromising article. Nothing, therefore,
remained for us but t o sleep uncovered for a while, with our
packs as pillows.
Long before daybreak we awoke and started. At a first
attempt we luckily reached the centre of the village. Hearing
voices inside a house and being panic-stricken, we hurriedly
turned a corner, ran straight before us, and found ourselves
again amongst the fields. I n our haste we had mistaken the
direction. T h e early light of dawn revealed the river and we
saw that we were going u p instead of down the stream as
we should. We now had to abandon our carefully considered
scheme. We should have t o go through Aben in daylight.
Country folk were already t o be seen going t o their work.
There was nowhere t o hide ourselves, and the longer we
waited, the worse our chances would be.
People whose hearts are not strong and who cannot sufficiently master their nerves are wiser to avoid journeys of this
kind. Such things might easily bring on heart failure or
madness.
We retraced our steps, passed once more under the windows
of the house where we had heard the voices which had frightened us. People were still talking, the blinds were open, and
I could see the flame of a fire. These blessed villagers would

32

MY JOURNEY T O

LHASA

drink hot tea, whereas our last meal had been taken early in
the morning of the previous day, and we did not feel sure that
we should be able to stop t o eat during the day which was
dawning.
All was well. W e were on the right road! W e went a t a
good pace and soon passed through the village. But all our
troubles were not over, for another cluster of houses appeared
on a hill overlooking the valley, which narrowed to the size
of a gorge, giving passage t o the river which entirely filled
the bottom of it. A small path had been cut high u p on its
right bank, and this was our road. Looking up, I discovered
from the foot of its sandy cliff a kind of loggia that commanded the view of the gorge from afar, and immediately
jumped to the conclusion that sentries might well be posted
there to observe travellers.
Perhaps it was an old Chinese building. It might indeed
have been used by them as a watch tower, but most probably
it was now put t o another use. I did not, one can well understand, remain there to ascertain the history of that painted
balcony. It left me perfectly indifferent. I did not even
dare to stop t o drink a t the rivulet which crossed the path
below, although I knew that I might not come across any
more water for some miles. I ran and ran, as if flying. Contrary to my custom, which was t o let Yongden march first, so
that passers-by could see his face, while I remained more or
less hidden behind him and his load, I told him t o follo\v me
because the possible danger was now behind us. Thus, if we
walked close t o each other, the watchmen from Aben, if there
were any, could discern only the familiar sight of 'a load surmounted by the red cap of a lama, under which hung a raggy
shamtabs.1
Nevertheless, we endeavoured to reach the end of that
interminable gorge as quickly as possible. T h e path, following
the windings of the cliff, alternately hid us from the spur on
which the upper part of Aben fort or monastery was situated,
and brought us again within sight of it. W e took advantage
The pleated large skirt worn by the lamas.

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
of this circumstance t o rest a few minutes when we were
sheltered. It seemed like a game, but a tiring, nerve-racking,
meaningless game.
T h e walk without the preoccupations that spoiled it would
have been charming. I n this country autumn has the youthful
charm of spring. T h e sun enveloped the scenery in a rosy
light that spread joy from the river of opalescent green, flowing
swiftly in the depths of the gorge, t o the top of the cliffs, on
which a few hardy fir trees pointed t o the sky. Each pebble
on the path seemed t o enjoy the warmth of day, and chatted
with suppressed laughter under our feet. A lilliputian shrub
that grew on the side of the road perfumed the air with a
strong aromatic scent.
It was one of those mornings when Nature bewitches U8
with her deceitful magic, when one sinks deep into the bliss of
sensation and the joy of living.

It is b u t a short distance between Aben and Lhakang-ra.
W e did not want t o be seen in the latter place and had again
planned to cross it a t night. W e had, therefore, plenty of
time-and as soon as we met a stream in a gorge that crossed
our path, we halted t o take a meal behind some big rocks a
little below. Many groups of pilgrims and several lonely
travellers passed near us without suspecting our presence.
Strangely enough, now that we had crossed the Dokar Pass
and entered Thibet, the stream of devotees which appeared to
have been stopped during the first week of our journey began
t o flow as usual in that season. We saw, from behind our
hiding-place, a most picturesque procession of men and women
from different parts of eastern and northern Thibet, all making
haste t o reach Lhakang-ra early and to find room in the primitive inns there. Still, a few stopped as we did, and began to
cook bread. We had no wheat flour and hoped they might
be willing t o sell us a small quantity of their own. Yongden
went t o propose this t o them, but they had only a very little,
and wanted to keep it. A talk followed in which my cornpanion tried to get as much information as possible about the

34

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
country. As the pilgrimage is usually performed thrice, a t
intervals of several years, some of the travellers we met were
able to supply us with very useful information.
M y companion returned, and we drank a bowl of tea. I
was washing m y handkerchief in the stream when one of the
travellers came over to us a n d asked the lama to foretell the
result of some litigation he had a t home. T h a t was the first
time during our journey t h a t Yongden acted in the capacity
of a "Red Cap" lama, a n adept in the a r t of m0.l
Years before, when we travelled in the northern country and
I wore my beautiful lama robes, it was I who was requested
to bless the people, blow on the sick to cure them, and prophesy
about countless things. I performed a few miracles, chance,
the faith and the robust constitution of those who were
benefited making i t difficult t o abstain from working wonders,
and I had some gratifying success as an oracle. T h a t glorious
time was gone! Now I humbly washed our pot in the stream,
while Yongden solemnly revcaled t o his attentive listeners the
secrets of the future concerning a disputed land many hundred
miles away.
We passed t o the left bank of the L h a k a n g r a river, and
the scenery changed entirely. T h e gorge had become very
narrow and wild. On both sides there were dark cliffs of
rock, which might in places have reached seven or eight hundred feet in height, leaving only a narrow ribbon of sky visible
overhead. Yet the view was far from being gloomy or depressing. Perhaps the pictures painted and carved in large numbers
on the rocks modified the character of the p h c e itself. Hundreds of Buddhas, Bodhisatvas, famous lamas of yore and
deities appeared there, all in the attitude of meditation, their
eyes half closed in some inward gaze. T h a t silent, motionless,
saintly crowd had created in the dark defile a very peculiar
mental atmosphere. Between the images were engraved large
1

The art of telling fortnnes, predicting the future, revealing the
unknown, disclosing the cause of illness and other misfortunes as well
as the remedy thercfor, ctc., ctc., by means of various methods of divination. AS there is no general equivalent f o r the word in English, fitting
all Caxs, I lhall be obliged to leave it in Thibetan throughout t h i book.

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
portions of philosophical treatises, as well as short mystic
sentences or praises of the wisdom of Buddha. I remained for
a long time reading here and there, enjoying the serenity
conveyed by these old Scriptures.
I was indeed privileged t o experience in a single day the
intoxication arising from the beauty of nature and the peaceful
delight of the mind brought t o the threshold of the supreme
Deliverance, and thrice blessed verily is the country that can
offer both these things t o those who tread its ground.
A mendong covered by a roof, which we saw at dusk,
might have provided us with shelter for the night, but we
thought that we were still far from Lhakang-ra, and therefore
continued our way. W e crossed a bridge once more. The
gorge bent suddenly, and the large ~ a l w e e nspread its green
waters in front of us. W e were in Lhakang-ra.
Although it was nearly dark, we did not dare t o turn back.
We could have been seen, and i t would have seemed strange
that pilgrims such as we were supposed t o be avoided the village. T h e best way, as our plans were once more upset, was
to spend the night bravely somewhere in a corner like other
travellers.
We met several people who were camping near a fire,
exchanged a few words with them and decided t o stay in a
small cave situated on the road we were t o follow the next
day. There we should be somewhat sheltered if snow fell.
I gathered some twigs and dry cow dung on the road. I stole
a few branches from the fences of the neighbouring fields, but
arjopar must be cautious in their ways. Unless they halt in
the forest, they are taken for thieves if they are seen burning
big logs. Thibetan farmers do not like people to pillage the
fences that protect the cultivated land from the intrusion of
cattle, and in doing so one risks serious thrashings.
As we were in a hamlet and night protected us, Yongden
thought that he might well take the opportunity to purchase
food. We had lived until then on the supply that' we llad

' A low wall made of stones on which are engraved texts of the
Scriptures, or mystic sentences.

36

sacred

AT T H E FOOTOF

THE

KANGSCHENZ ~ D N G A

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
carried when leaving the Mission House. T e n days had elapsed
since then, and our bags were nearly empty. I wrapped myself
in my thick dress according to the manner of the poor Thibetans, and made a pretence of sleoping t o avoid useless talk if,
by any chance, some one passed near me, while my companion
went toward the houses.
The first one he entered happened t o be that of the lama in
charge of the Lhakang-ra shrine. H e was welcomed on his
two-fold title of colleague and buyer, for the lama added to
his profits as a shrinekeeper those he derived from a small shop
where pilgrims could revictual and purchase sundry articles of
devotion such as incense sticks, small flags bearing mystic
T h e y both, by chance, belonged
drawings or words, etc.
to the same religious sect and sub-sect. Moreover, the lama
was not a native of the country, his birthplace being in f a r
northern Kham, where Yongden had long lived with me, and
whose dialect he spoke rather well. T h a t coincidence of circumstances made them friends in no time, but the affair was
not to end there.
Looking round the room, Yongden saw books on a shelf and
asked his permission t o have a look a t them. This being
granted, he read alorrd a few lines of the first one he opened.
"How beautifully you read!" admired the lama. "Are you
able to read any book in that way!"
"Indeed!" answered my companion.
Then, passing suddenly t o another topic, the lama shopkeeper pressed Yongden t o spend the night in his house, offering
to go himself t o fetch and carry his luggage. Yongden refused
but, as the lama insisted, he confessed that he was travelling
with his aged mother. This did not in the least cool the good
intentions of the kind host. There was room for the mother
as well, and it was hard t o convince him that, by this time, I
was sleeping soundly and was best left alone.
Then the keugner (sacristan) being a t a loss to manage the
success of the scheme he had in mind, without making i t
known, was forced to disclose the fact that his hospitable feelings were not altogether disinterested.

...

M Y JOURNEY T O LHASA
"Lama," he said t o Yongden, "some villagers have come here
from the opposite side of the Giamo nu chu (Salween) and
have asked me to perform the rites for the dead on behalf of
one of their relatives who passed away recently. They are
wealthy people and would have gone to the lama of their own
country monastery had he not been away in Lhasa. I have
been chosen in his place, and i t would be very profitable for
me
but I a m not well read and I am so afraid of making
mistakes in placing the ritual offerings and reciting the liturgy
in the proper way. I see th'at you are learned. Perhaps you
know these ceremonies ?"
"I d o know them," declared Yongden.
"Then I beg you t o d o me the service of staying here three
days. I shall feed you both and give you some provisions for
the road when you set out. T h e mother might recite mani [the
well-known Aum mani padme hum hri!] a t the door, and no
doubt the villagers will give her some tmmpa."
Yongden declined the proposal on the ground that we belonged to a party of pilgrims who were already ahead. We
could not linger behind, but were, on the contrary, compelled
to proceed quickly in order t o join them and return together to
our own country.
When my companion returned with a few provisions, he told
me of his talk with the lama, and I rather regretted that the
vicinity of the border commanded a hasty progress. I would
have enjoyed the fun of reciting mani "at the door." However,
the near future was t o give me more opportunities t o enjoy that
kind of fun than I could have ever dreamed of. I should find
it hard to recount the number of times I have chanted mani,
outdoors and indoors during my journey. I became rather expert a t it, and was complimented twice for the nice way I had
of chanting it. Perhaps, after all, Thibet helped me t o discover
the "jewel" which dwells in the heart of the "lotus."
T h e cunning lama came in the early morning to talk again
with Yongden. I n order t o avoid being seen by him I went
down and walked around the shrine for about an hour, putting

...

' Mani

38

padme means a jewel 'in 2 lotus.

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
into motion, as I walked, each of the many reels which contain tightly rolled bands of the paper on which is printed a
thousand times the mystic sentence, "Aum mani padme hum

hri!"
I deemed that morning's walk t o be rather superfluous for
one who would have to tramp a good number of miles during
the day, but I found no better means of getting away, and
even so, I did not escape a talk with the lama, who stopped for
a little chat with me on his way back home.

CHAPTER I1
LONG the majestic Giamo nu chu

A

(Salween) the road goes

alternately through deep gorges and broad, widening valleys. T h e scenery in either case remains a t once majestic and
enchanting.
Truly, fear is still there, crouched in a corner of my heart,
ready to spring up. Our stay a t Lhakang-ra has been too long.
Has the shrinekeeper begun to wonder who we are? I observe
those who come behind me. Are we not followed, spied upon?
T h a t horseman yonder, riding in our direction, is he not a
soldier sent to bring us back?
Eve, when she was banished from Eden, had explored all its
pleasures, and except for these it could afford her no cause for
regret. Even if Eve's mind were of a similar cast to mine, she
might have found interest in the adventure which opened to her
the wide unknown world beyond the inclosure of Paradise.
But I, her little great-granddaughter, although I had wandered
for years in my fairyland, I was far from having exhausted
its interests. Had I been compelled t o turn back now, I
would never have known the new landscape hidden behind the
woody hill that shut off my horizon, nor penetrated the
mystery beyond that other rosy-coloured one which stood
behind it, nor climbed the pass which, still farther, traced a
mauve soft line on the sky between snow-white peaks. Forebodings still arose in my mind only to fade in their powerlessness to disturb the joy of those wonderful hours.
A few days after leaving Lhakang-ra, a tragic meeting saddened us. Near the road, in front of the Giamo nu chu, whose
icy emerald water appeared in the bright sunlight like a glittering moving mirror, lay an old man, his head resting on a
leather bag. When we approached, he gazed a t us with vacant
eyes, already dull, and with an effort he lifted himself a little

MY J O U R N E Y T O LHASA
on his elbow. I could see the poor fellow was near his end.
Yongden asked him how he got there alone. T h e story was
simple. The old peasant had left his village with a group of
friends to travel round the Kha Karpo on a pilgrimage. An
illness, whose cause he could not understand, had suddenly
deprived him of his strength. H e was unable to walk and had
to fall behind. His companions had slackened their pace;
they had even stopped for a whole day, and then they had
gone on their way. Such is the Thibetan custom, even in the
desert, where an abandoned sick man, if he cannot reach a
dokpar' encampment, will die of starvation when once his
provisions are exhausted. Nor must one forget the wolves and
the bears who roam about.
"Shall 1 die?" the old man asked Yongden. "Lama, cast lots
to know."
"No, you will not die," answered the latter, after having
quickly performed the usual rites, in an attempt t o cheer up
the forlorn traveller.
He meant well, but I thought that the glimmer of hope he
lighted would soon vanish if, the next morning, the man himself
felt still weaker, or if in the darkness of the next night, he
realized the approach of death. Then in spite of the promptings of prudence, it became impossible for me t o continue my
part of the aged, feeble-minded, and beggarly mother. I n a
few words I reminded him of the simple beliefs of the religion
he had followed since his childhood, and ~ r o m i s e dhim, not
only this life, but a happy rebirth in the abode of Chenrezigs
which awaits those who die while on a pilgrimage, and, after
thousands of years spent there in rest and delights, other lives
again and again, till he reached the supreme enlightenment
that liberates one from the bondage of life as well as of death.
He listened to me attentively and piously. H e bent low
and touched the bottom of my dress with his forehead, as
Thibetans do to the lamas whom they worship. Maybe he

'

I

The abode o f Chenrerip: Nubdeaa-&en, the western land of bliss,
known by its Sanskrit name, Sukhavati, by those acquainted with

Mahaymist Buddhism.

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
believed that a khandoma or a goddess had seen his distress
and assumed the shape of a pilgrim t o console him. What
mattered, if the illusion enchanted his last hour?
46
Can we help you in any way?" I asked him.
"No," he answered, "I have food and money in my bag.
I am well here, with the gods. Kale pheb."
"Kale juJJJa we both answered, and we went on our way.
I felt that Nub-dewa-chen-the
land of bliss-shone now
before his eyes that began to see but dimly the things of this
world. T h e dying man was carried away by the vision I had
evoked and had lost all desire for this life, for which, at first,
he had begged my companion so anxiously.
W e enjoyed a few days of relative tranquillity, loitering
leisurely along the beautiful valley. We were no longer in a
solitary region, as we had been during our tramps in the Kha
Karpo forests. Villages were rather close together, and deeming
it still wise t o avoid staying over night amongst Thibetans or
even being seen during the daytime by many people, we
managed t o pass these villages a t daybreak or a little earlier.
This mode of travelling compelled us to remain long in outof-the-way and out-of-sight spots, waiting for the proper time
to venture t o pass the houses.
There was nothing unpleasant in such lazy vagrancy amidst
beautiful scenery, favoured as we were with fine weather. The
only drawback was that it made our progress dreadfully ~ 1 0
Anyhow, we felt the benefit of these long rests in the jungle
after the painful strain t o which our nerves had been subjected. But perfect peace was far from our present reach. One
morning, when we were imprudently taking our meal in a
small cave near the road, a woman aroused the fear latent in
our minds.
She was a well-dressed lady of rank, covered with jewels;
1

A khandoma, one who walks through the sky-a kind of fairy-the
DCkini of the Sanskrit text.
I
"GO slowlyn-polite farewell to those who go away.
"Stay (or sit) slowly'?--polite farewell1 to those who remain.

'

42

~ -

M Y JOURNEY T O LHASA
three maid servants followed her. She stopped before us and
asked from what country we had come. At that time we
styled ourselves Mongolian dokpas of the northern Koko-Nor
solitudes. Yongden, therefore, answered: "We are people
from beyond the Blue Lake [tso Zonpo po parcho la]." She
replied: "Are you philings [foreigners] !" I made a pretence
of laughing a t such an idea, and Yongden stood up t o attract
the attention of the lady t o himself, s o that she might, by
scanning his regular Mongolian features, be convinced that he
had nothing of a Westerner about him. "She is my mother,"
he declared, pointing t o me. Then, after a few other questions,
the woman went on her way.
A little later her husband passed us, riding a superb horse
with a silver-and-gold-inlaid saddle. A dozen attendants followed, leading the horses of the lady and her maids.
The gentleman did not honour us with even a single glance.
Yongden learned from a servant that they all came from a
place situated beyond Menkong, and that circumstance added
some strength to my resolution t o avoid that small town, capital of the Tsarong province and seat of a governor.
The question asked by the woman had made us most unhappy. So, in spite of the trouble I had taken t o powder
myself with cocoa and charcoal, in spite of my pretty yak-hair
hair-dressing, I did not look Thibetan enough in that Kham
country where most women have a dark complexion! What
more was to be done? It might be also that rumours had
been spread about us, after our passage a t Lhakang-ra. We
did not know what t o believe.
The jungle had ceased t o be charming. I again began t o
gee a spy behind every bush, and the water of the Salween
muttered threatening or mocking words.
Then we bethought U S that perchance we were alone responsible for the question that the Thibetan lady had asked us.
We could not guess the extent of her geographical knowledge.
lake which appears on the maps under its Mongolian name, G k o Nor--the Blue Lake-in
Thibetan, Tso Nenpo. It is an immense salt
lake in the Desert of Grass near the country of Amdo.

43

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
Perhaps she was learned enough to have thought of the Asiatic
Russians when Yongden had mentioned "beyond the Blue
Lake." B u t more likely she had confused tso (lake with gya
tso (ocean) and had understood that we had come from the
cther side of the "blue ocean,'' which was tantamount t o saying
that we were not Asiatics. T h a t idea reassured us, but we
struck out forever from our travelling vocabulary the words
"tso parcho la," and transported our mother-country a good
deal southward. W e became natives of Amdo!

We were nearing the end of the last gorge before the wide
broadening of the valley a t the point where our path deserted
the Giamo nu chu and turned toward the passes that led to
the river Nu. Yongden walked ahead. H e had already turned
the corner of a rocky headland and was out of my sight, when
a well-dressed man coming toward me appeared a t the point
of the small promontory. T h e path was exceedingly narrow
and when two people met there one of them had to stand aside
against the rock t o allow the other to pass.
With a humility suitable to my part of a n Oriental woman
and beggar, I had already begun t o make room for the
traveller, but he stopped suddenly, quickly removing the gun
he carried over his shoulder and the sword that was passed
through his belt, according t o the Thibetan fashion.' He first
silently bowed down three times, then, with clasped hands and
head bent, as when asking the benediction of a lama, he approached me.
Astonishment paralyzed thought. I mechanically obeyed
an old habit acquired when I lived in lamaist monasteries,
and laid my hands on the man's head. Before I had sufficiently recovered from my surprise to think of asking him
who he was, he had again put on his gun and sword and was
gone. I turned to look a t him; he strode rapidly along the
gorge, and after a few minutes was but a small moving black
speck in the gigantic corridor.

' Thibetans do not enter monasteries or salute lamas with arms on them44

MY JOURNEY T O L H A S A
"Did you see that man?" I enquired of Yongden as soon
as I rejoined him.
"Yes," he said.
"Did he speak t o you?"
"No. He only greeted me with the usual 'Ogyay!
ogyay!' "
"Do you know him?"
"Not in the least."
I related to my companion what had just happened, and he
concluded that the man had seen that I was a naljorma.
As for me I suspected that the stranger had formerly met
us both somewhere. H e had recognized Yongden and had
guessed the identity of the lay woman who followed him clad
in plain white clothes. 1 was very sorry t o have let him go
without speaking with him. And now, although he had shown
me respect by asking m y blessing and, therefore, could have
no bad intentions toward me, he might
- tell some one about his
meeting and, as he was proceeding in the direction of Aben,
such talks might prove dangerous.
But Yongden persisted in saying t h a t he had never seen the
man before, that he did not know us in the Ieast, and that he
had been prompted by some occult influences. Then he began
to tell me several Thibetan stories about similar instances, and
soon landed me in the phantasmagoric yet fascinating realm
of thought-forms, previous lives, and many other kindred
topics. But my modest wishes were confined t o the desire
that, whatever might have been the motive which he had
obeyed, my safety might not be endangered by my unknown
worshipper.
We were now approaching Thana, where we had been told
that there existed a frontier station. Trusting the maps and
Some travel books that I had read, I believed that the ~ilgrirns'
road turned east toward a twin pass of the Dokar-la, leading
to the Chinese territory on the watershed of the river Mekong.
In reality the path to Menkong, the capital of Tsarong, is
"You are taking trouble." A common

expression that traveller8
on the road, especially in esstern Thibet.

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
the only one t o branch off a t that place along the Giamo nu chu.
T h e one which we were to follow northward forks only at
Wabo. I did not know these details and was most preoccupied
with the invention of a new story concerning the aim of our
journey, as we should be leaving behind the sacred mountain
which had until then supplied us with the plausible and respectable motive of performing a religious pilgrimage. I felt
almost convinced that, if we kept t o the circuitous road, nobody
would take any notice of us, for was not that station at Thana
probably established precisely in order t o observe those who
left it t o set out for Thibet? I already had visions of barriers,
of officials before whom travellers were led to be interrogated.
What would that T h a n a village be like? I was puzzled and
anxious.
AS we were walking toward our fate-good or bad we could
not know-we saw a few snowy peaks and a great part of the
Kha Karpo itself, shining marveIlously white, which, it pleased
me t o imagine, bid us a cordial farewell. At that time of year
only dry, thorny shrubs were t o be seen in the wide valley.
T h e hills were barren and of a light-yellow colour. On the
opposite bank of the river, which flows between high banks, we
saw a monastery.
We managed to reach Thana a t night. We arranged it even
too well that time, it seems, for we were not able to find
our way in the dark and arrived near a temple where there
were a number of watch-dogs, who barked dreadfully at our
approach. Happily, they were well shut in and could not escape to attack us; but I feared that people would look out to see
who were causing the noise and make certain that they were not
thieves. Furthermore, the passage of mysterious strangers in the
night held the danger of enquiries about us and the risk of being
reported a t the station. T o avoid this, Yongden called aloud to
the shrinekeeper, asking shelter for the night for a tired uriopa
who had hardly been able t o struggle through the last lap
of his journey on account of a bad leg. My companion'3
request was full of pathos and loud enough to be heard all
over the temple buildings. During his ~erforrnance1 had

46

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
hidden myself out of sight. W e were practically convinced
that the shrinekeeper would not get up t o receive a beggar at
night. We knew our Thibet and Thibetans well enough to
risk the trick, being certain of its result. When he had waited
long enough, Yongden went away, lamenting aloud: "Oh,
how unkind t o leave a poor sick pilgrim out in the cold! H o w
pitiless!" and so on. His plaintive voice faded gradually away,
as at the opera in songs of supposed passers-by behind the
scenes. It was rather a pretty effect amidst natural scenery
of standing rocks, along a path that led downward to a stream.
I nearly applauded.
We had passed the shrine all right. Whoever might have
been staying in it would not, on the morrow, give a single
thought to the crying beggar of the previous night. B u t where
was the village? I n the pitch dark we could not see it and,
had we caught sight of houses, we should not have dared to
venture in their direction, lest we fall in with dogs of the
same species as those who watched over the temple.
Yongden insisted on lying down on the road itself. I preferred to go farther from the temple and find a more comfortable place. Discerning, in the shallow water, some steppingstones which crossed the stream, I went scouting on the other
side, where I discovered two caves. W e had a house for the
rest of the night! What a blessing! W e should sleep as if
really a t home. I ran to fetch m y companion, and we installed
ourselves in one of the caves, where we ate our supper with
the clear, fresh water of the stream as beverage (cool, perhaps,
even too cool), and slept the sound sleep of the tired yet happy
Thibetan neskorpas (pilgrims).
In the morning, when putting on my upper dress, which I
used a t night as a blanket, I discovered that I had lost m y
small compass. This was a most distressing event! First,
the compass was useful t o me, and, although I had another, I
should miss it. But the worst danger was in leaving a foreign
object behind us. If it was found, that compass might be
talked about all over the country and officials would quickly
realize that a foreigner had been staying in that locality. I

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
spent some really unpleasant minutes searching in the dark
for the lost article, which, fortunately, I found before long.
Anyhow, we had lost some extremely precious time. At
daybreak a servant of the shrine came t o fetch water at the
stream, and we started in haste. W e could now see the village
quite near the place where we had slept. T h e country folk
were already awake and busy with their early work, reciting, as they moved t o and fro, those various mystic formulz
which, in lamaist lands, take the place which prayers occupy
in other countries. Kindling the fire, giving fodder to the
cattle, leading horses t o drink a t the stream, they went on
with their muttering. A humming, like that from a hundred
beehives, enveloped the village.
People looked a t us from the top of their windows or from
their flat roofs. W e went along with our heads bent, humming
like everybody else. Yongden enquired about the road from
a man near the stream. A few minutes later we were out in
the fields.
Some peasants, carrying ploughs, followed us on the way
to their work; others were already occupied in distributing
water in the irrigation canals. Although it was November,
the temperature was mild. A winter crop grows in these valleys, s o different in every respect from the bleak and icy
trans-Himalayan Thibet. Here is a country where life is
pleasant and easy, and nothing would interfere with the joviality of its inhabitants, if the taxes levied b y the authorities
did not increase every year.
We chatted with several people on our way till we reached
the forest. Going through it, we ascended a pass called
Tondo-la, the height of which is approximately 11,200 feet.
Here, for the first time since leaving Yunnan, we
our
tent. We had climbed down from the pass without finding
any water on the road. At last I discovered a small spring in
a narrow ravine and decided to stop there. I t was extremely
damp; I feared that we would both get sore eyes if we slept
unsheltered, and thought that the tent might also afford us
protection against wild animals who might carry off a part of

itched

48

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
our food supply during the night. However, we pitched it
only long after nightfall and took it down before daybreak.
In the morning, we saw for the first time the river Nu, which
flowed swiftly in a deep gorge to join the Giamo nu chu. W e
crossed it on a good bridge. A t that time a large party of
pilgrims overtook us and begged m y companion to tell their
fortunes. It is regarded as an unpardonable sin for a lama t o
refuse such a request. "Red Hat" sect lamas, in particular,
who are credited with a ~ r o f o u n dknowledge of occult lore,
can only with difficulty avoid acting as fortune-tellers, astrologers, exorcists, and the like. M y companion endeavoured to
combine each of his consultations with some simple words about
the true Buddhist doctrine which might lead his hearers away
from their deep-rooted superstition. He also added, according
to circumstances, some advice about cleanliness-as
far as
hygiene can be understood by Thibetans.
On this occasion I had t o remain for more than half an hour
seated beneath a scorching sun which struck the yellowish
barren cliff behind me. Yongden could not get rid of the exacting devotees. One consulted him about the way his cattle
were prospering during tiis absence; another, desirous of adding a few carved stones in remembrance of his pilgrimage t o
the mendotrg which stood in his village, wished to know what
would be the most meritorious and lucky sentence to inscribe
on them. An overtired girl suffered from sore feet and feared
to be left behind. She anxiously wanted to know if she would
be able to walk in a few days' time, and her mother insisted
upon knowing the name of the demon who had caused the
swelling of the girl's feet and had stiffened her legs! T h a t it
could be the natural effect of long tramps neither she nor her
daughter nor their companions would ever have admitted.
Faithful to a method which, for some years, had allowed us
to relieve and cure many suffering Thibetans, Yongden, with
impressive gravity, counted the beads of his rosary, threw some
pebbles in the air, caught them again in his hand before they
touched the ground, and performed a few other ceremonies

49

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
accompanied by a n unintelligible muttering in broken Sanskrit.
My adopted son is really gifted for such ritualistic work and,
had he continued his life in a lamasery, he might have become quite famous as an oracle or exorcist. But he had preferred an orthodox form of Buddhism which prohibits all
superstitions.
"I see," he said, after some time, "there is a way to get rid
of that demon, who is of a wicked kind. Listen well, all of
you, so as t o remember what I a m about to tell you." The
pilgrims immediately surrounded the lama, some squatting at
his feet, some standing motionless with their backs against
the cliff, straining their minds in a mighty effort t o understand
what the Zonsher would order-a picturesque group, of which
I felt sorry not t o be able t o take a snapshot.
"You will find a chiirten on your way," declared Yongdena prophecy that could not but be fulfilled, for chorten are
numerous in Thibet. "You will stop a t that place, and the
sick girl will lie down next the chiirten for three days, well sheltered, so that the sun's rays do not touch her head. Thrice
each day, a t sunrise, noon, and sunset, you will all assemble
and chant D d r n ~ .Those
~
who d o not know Dolma, will recite
Mani. T h e girl will go round the chorten three times while
you are chanting, and, save for that short walk, she shall not
move during the three days. After having walked round the
chorten, the girl shall be each time well fed. Her feet and legs
shall then be massaged in hot water, wherein you will put a
pinch of the holy sand of the most sacred Samye monastery,
which I will give you. After this has been done, the earth
that has been wetted by the water shall be removed, thrown
f a r away in a hole, and carefully covered with stones or earth,
for the power of the demon will be washed away with that
holy water and fall on the ground next the chorten. Should
the demon fail t o depart, this will show that you have made
1

-

NGnrhcs: a seer, a clairvoyant; literally, one who knows beforehand,
who foresees.
'Praises of the Universal Mother. A mptic figure of the Tantrik
pantheon, called in Sanskrit Toro.

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
some mistake in performing the rite and you must do it again
at the second chorten you see on your way.
"Now, listen again. None of you must leave his companions until you have all reached your country together, for I
see that the demon would immediately follow those who part
from the girl, since he was not allowed t o have his way with
her, and would torment them in her stead. I will teach her
mother a zung l and i t will be a ~ r o t e c t i o nfor her daughter
and all of you, as long as you remain together.
The poor fellows felt as if in Heaven. T h e lama had spoken
long, and what he had said they could neither well understand nor remember, which meant that he was exceedingly
learned. Then Yongden commanded them t o go o n their way,
and kept only the old mother, to impart to her the secret spell.
"Bhhah!" he thundered in her ear with terrific eyes.
Trembling, yet overjoyed a t the thought that she had now
nothing t o fear from the evil spirits, the old woman bowed
down with the utmost gratitude and went up the path, trying
sotto voce t o imitate the intonation of her initiator.
bhhah! bhaaa!" she muttered, and soon a
"Bhhah!
turned into ea, into e, and finally seemed to stabilize itself in
a sort of bleating: "Beaaa! beaaa!" I pretended t o tie m y
garters, which had become loose, so as to remain behind and
laugh a t leisure, my head hidden in my large thick sleeves.
"What does it matter?" said Yongden, smiling. "The girl
will get three days' rest, a little massage, and good food, and
as the mother has the precious zung and will not leave her
daughter, the other people will not abandon her, either. T h a t
is good honest work, and, moreover, I learned such tricks from
you."
I could not reply. He was right, and I, too, thought that
we had done a kind service to the afflicted and suffering maid.
When we reached the top of the cliff, we saw fields in all
directions and a village before us, which we subsequently
learned was called Ke. Most of the neskorpar had already
reached it, and some were running back toward us.

...

' Zung,

in Sanskrit D/ra'rani, a spell.

51

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA

"Oh, Lama!" they said, "what a learned lionshes chen you
are! You told us rightly that we would quickly see a chorten.
There i t is, a n d the girl is already lying down. Please accept
tea from us."
A chorten was indeed there, and also a small monastery
whose few inmates, before long, heard about their wonderful
colleague. T h e pilgrims, who were not beggars, but villagers
of
means, had already bought several pots of spirit and
drunk them, and they were now telling about strange miracles
performed b y m y innocent companion. Each had contemplated a greater wonder than his friends. One asserted that,
when crossing the river Nu, he had clearly perceived that the
lama had not walked on the bridge, b u t alongside it, in midair!
Although he had not drunk a n y spirit, being a strict teetotaler, Yongden felt somewhat infected by their excitement.
H e told stories of far-off countries where he had been on pi[grimages-Riwo tse nga, the Chinese Hill of Five Peaks, near
the great Pekin-the seat of the God of Wisdom, the Changchub remspa Jampeion,l and the most sacred mountain of
Kuntu Zungpo? where pure-minded pilgrims may see Sangy a k himself in a round jalus.4
I began to think that the fun was going too far. T h e whole
village and the local tmpas had congregated round him, and
he went on making mo, telling fortunes and the like. People
brought presents, which he graciously accepted. I did not like
such a compromising fame, but perhaps I was wrong, for who
could have supposed that the mother of such a brilliant sorcerer was a foreign lady?
I managed, nevertheless, to attract the attention of my son,
and with perhaps somewhat stern fervour I ejaculated, "Karma
1

Better known by Orientalists under his Sanskrit name, Bodhisatva
Man j ushri.
' Samantabhadra, the all-good one.
Buddha.
'a Rainbow.
Trapas: the real name of the lamsist monks, lama being the title
o f the ecclesiastic dignitaries, or incarnations of dead lamar. However,
out o f politeness, the title llLama" is given to all nlembers of the clergy
when addressing them.

'

52

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA

pa

kien no!" which is a pious expression used by the followers
of the Kargyud-Karma t o call on their spiritual father, the
head of the sect, but which in practice is now often n o more
than a mere exclamation. I n the secret code which, as in a
previous journey, I had devised, these holy words mean simply
"Let us be off quickly!"
Perhaps a trifle vexed a t giving u p his triumph, Yongden
declared that he would now ask leave to go on his way. People exclaimed that it was not possible, for the next village was
far, we could not reach it before night, and not a drop of water
was to be found on the way. Better, they added, i t was to
spend the night amongst them; they would give us a good
room. M y companion felt tempted-I
understood it-but t o
the shy imploring glance he cast in my direction I replied with
a still more fervid "Karma pa kien no," which moved some of
the people around me, who repeated devoutly, "Karma pa
kien no.
Karma pa kien n o . . J>
Thus we went, and happy I felt t o find myself again in
silence and solitude. I scolded Yongden for the way in which
he made himself conspicuous and told him a lot of things
which made him sulky.
We climbed a pass which was about 7,500 feet high, and
from there descended a dusty path cut into a range of white
hills that reminded me of Kansu in northern China. Of
water, truly, there was none, and the prospect of getting
nothing to drink, either that evening or the next morning, added
to the bad humour of the lama. T h e new moon lighted our
way, and if we had not been tired we could easily have walked
a part of the night. B u t a t the sight of a small cave perched
high above the road the desire t o sleep overpowered US and
we yielded to it all the more easily, since we had left behind
two passes and a river, the dreaded Thana, and feared nothing
from the next village. How wrong we were!
Picturesque indeed was our hostelry, with a small platform
in front, but room and terrace were both so diminutive in size
that we were fearful of rolling out of them in our sleep and
breaking our necks on the rocks below.

. ..

..

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
T h e morrow was to be the first of a series of eventful days,
well qualified t o prostrate with nervous breakdown one less
strong than myself.
W e arrived a t the village, which is called Wabo, in the
die of the morning, hungry and more especially thirsty. This
was quite natural, as we had taken n o refreshment whatsoever
since our midday stay with the pilgrims near the chiitten.
W e had laughed s o much a t the demons the day before, that
maybe a little one amongst them wished t o play us a trick and
suggested t o us the idea (which we ought never to have conceived of) of stopping to make tea near a place where water
had been brought through a rustic wooden aqueduct for the
villagers.
A little snow had fallen during the night. I collected what
twigs and dry cow dung I could find around the spot, while
Yongden began t o light the fire. T h e water was very long in
boiling, my companion very slow in eating and drinking, and,
as a result, a number of villagers-first two or three, then a
dozen, and finally perhaps twice that number-gathered round
us. A good woman, seeing how little wood I was able to pick
up on the road, brought me some from her house. All would
have gone smoothly had Yongden only spoken the tenth part
of the "winged words" b y means of which, like the divine
Ulysses, he had delighted and bewitched the natives of Ke on
the previous day. But an image could not have been more
silent than the orator of yesterday. H e did not utter a word
or make a gesture. H e only ate and drank and drank and ate
alternately and endlessly. People looked a t us with deep
astonishment. Thibetans are a talkative lot, and ~ongden's
attitude upset all their notions concerning arjopar.
"Who are these people!" asked a woman, doubtless in the
hope that we would answer the question. But the lama preserved the same stern silence.
What a pity! I n my carefully devised secret code of formula: for all emergencies I had not provided for the order,
"Talk!" And now I was powerless, drinking my tea humbly
behind the lama, who was seated on an old sack I had spread

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
for him. I thought it prudent to accentuate my respect and
to serve yongderi in allways to avoid any suspicion about my
personality. Alas! that, too, nearly turned to my loss.
I had taken away the empty kettle, a t present used as a
teapot, and proceeded t o wash it, but the contact of the water
with my hands had the natural result of cleaning them, and
with that beginning of cleanliness appeared the whiteness of
my skin. I had not noticed this, so distressed was I by the
strange danger-fraught behaviour of Yongden, when a woman,
in a low voice, said t o another near her:
"Her hands are like those of philings!"
Had she ever seen foreigners? T h a t was doubtful, unless
she had been a t Bhatang, or elsewhere in Chinese Thibet, o r
again in Gyantze, in the extreme south of the country. But
every Thibetan is imbued with a strong conviction about the
cast of the foreigner's features. H e or she is tall, fair-haired,
with white skin, rosy cheeks, and white eyes, which may be
understood to be the colour of any iris that is not black or
dark brown. "Mig kar" (white eyes) is a common epithet
of abuse for foreigners, all over Thibet. Nothing looks more
horrid, according t o Thibetan taste, than blue or gray eyes,
and what they call gray hair, which is to say fair hair.
So the colour of my skin betrayed my nationality. I did
not show in any way that I had heard the remark, and quickly
rubbed my hands on the bottom of the greasy, smoked kitchen
utensil.
Amongst the villagers there were now three soldiers. Good
Heavens! There was a "post" in that village, and very likely
there was none in Thana, which we had passed with such precautions. What would become of us! I heard a rumour
spreading, "Are they philingr?" And that petrified lama still
continued t o masticate some trampo! I did not dare even t o
pronounce the "Karma pa kieno," translated by "Let us be
quickly off," lest my voice, in that awkward silence, should
attract more attention to me.
At last Yongden rose and a villager ventured t o ask him
where he was going. What a terror! It was here, before all

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
these prying eyes, that we were t o leave the pilgrims' road,
since we were exactly a t the junction of the road entering the
Nu chu Valley and of the one going to China by way of the
Kha Karpo range. T h a t is, we had t o confess openly that we
intended t o proceed toward the centre of Thibet!
Yongden calmly told them that we had made the pilgrimage, circumambulating the Kha Karpo, that it was now over,
and that we were going back to our own country.
H e did not add anything more. H e put his load on his
back. I imitated him, and we started off among the people,
on the very road they all take when going to Lhasa.
And then the miracle happened-the little mischievous spirit
who had enjoyed himself a t our expense gave up the joke and
began another one t o our advantage.
T h e strain that was felt by everyone relaxed. I heard some
men saying, jestingly:
"Philings going on a pilgrimage!"
This idea seemed extremely funny, and they all laughed.
"They are Sokpos [Mongolians]," said another, seriously,
and this was what the whole village believed when, still silent,
and walking as if in dream, we left the Kha Karpo pilgrims'
road, and set out upon the greater pilgrimage t o Lhasa.
We climbed toward a pass known as the Tong la. Travelling in Thibet is a continual going u p and down; a single
day's march leads one through considerable differences of level.
This peculiarity adds greatly t o the fatigue of the pedestrian,
especially when he carries-as
we did-a
load on his back.
But it also greatly enhances the charm of walking because of
the great diversity of scenery which one sees each day.
After having crossed the ridge, we found a good straight path
through the forest which led t o a valley in which, t o my great
astonishment, I saw a river flowing toward China. At that
time I had not yet read the accounts of the few explorers who,
years ago, had trodden that same path when this part of
Thibet had not yet been taken away from its old rulers and
when-as I have already mentioned-foreigners
were allowed
to visit it.

56

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
Like me, they had all been puzzled by the mysterious river
which seems to run toward the Mekong, whereas it is known
that a gigantic range, crowned with everlasting snow, separates
its watershed from that of the Salween. But as my information told me of but a single river, namely the N u chu, which
I was to follow upstream, I concluded that it took a bend round
the range I had just crossed. A man whom I met down in
the valley confirmed the fact: the river I had crossed two days
before, which was then flowing toward the Salween, was the
very same that I now saw before me.
The man explained t o us that we should cross a bridge
nearby and proceed upward to the monastery of Pedo, where
we could purchase food. H e also told us that the road following the stream led t o Atunze (in Chinese territory) across several passes.
The country looked pretty. It was well cultivated and the
upper part of the hills was woody and green, although i t
was winter.
A little farther from the bridge, a rounded spur divided the
valley into two parts; the river flowed t o the right, and a wide
slope on which several villages were perched occupied the
left. Behind the villages was a path leading to the mountains.
For a little while, I felt tempted to take that road, thinking
that it was a short cut t o the Salween side. B u t reflectioln
convinced me that I was still too near Chinese territory t o
attract attention by following a route of my own. Prudence
demanded that I should continue for a time along the path
trodden by arjopar, where we would pass unnoticed. Exploration, and its joys, would come later.
The sun set after we had crossed the bridge. I meant to
pass the monastery a t night, and to hide myself early in the
morning at some distance from it, leaving to Yongden the task
of going alone to purchase some food.
I would gladly have camped near the river where there
was a charming natural grovc with rivulets of clear water.
But the lamasery was still far away, and it was better for the
success of my scheme to stop only when we were close t o it.

M Y JOURNEY T O LHASA
For the first time we made use of one of the rubber bottles
we had carried with us, which were ordinary hot-water bottles.
When I decided to add two of them t o our extremely reduced
luggage, I thought that they might help travellers devoid of
blankets, as we were, to bear the cold of the winter nights
in high altitudes. They could also be used t o carry water
across the dry regions. Yet, on account of their foreign aspect
we dared not fill them before Thibetans, and for that reason
we suffered thirst more than once when we could have easily
carried with us enough water to make our tea.
W e had, however, disguised our bottles in a style akin to
that of their owners. Covered with a case of thick nambu,'
plain red for one, and red and yellow for the other, they had
become shabluks-that is t o say, water pouches worn by lamas
of yore, whose sham patterns continue to form part of the
ecclesiastic garb of present-day lamaist monks. Though clothed
in that fashion, there was considerable difference between our
bottles, which came directly from a big American firm, and
the purely conventional and useless simulacra that hang on the
lama's shamthabs. However, as we did not mean t o exhibit
them freely, from a distance they could create a sufficient
illusion.
Moreover, any article of our outfit which attracted the attention of the natives was immediately represented to them as having been purchased a t Lhasa, and this gave us an opportunity
of relating the wonders of the great city where so many foreign
goods are offered for sale. People listened t o Yongden, or to
myself, if the audience happened to be mostly women. We
cleverly spoke of other objects much more wonderful, that
easily made them forget those found in our bags, and these
were prudently hidden again.
Before the beginning of our journey I had settled with the
lama that in any story we might irvent, according to circumstances, we should never appear as people coming from outside
Thibet, but that, on the contrary, those whom we should meet
should be made t o believe that we had travelled from Lhasa

' Thick Thibetan woolen cloth.
58

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
to the border, and were now on our way home. This gave us
a certificate of Thibetan nationality and did away with the
curiosity and the suspicion which fastens upon newcomers in
the country. This was much safer in every way and allowed
US also to speak as having bought a t Lhasa the few foreign
articles we carried with us.
We filled one of our bottles a t the stream and left the pretty
grove behind. T h e gompa (monastery) was situated a good
distance from the bridge and night came before we had even
discovered it. We followed a path cut in a woody slope above
the river Nu. As it curved, we saw several fires burning higher
up, which reminded us of those which had frightened us
the second night after our departure. Most likely travellers
camped there whom we should meet if we proceeded, which
prospect displeased us greatly. Yet t o wait until they had
started next morning would have upset our scheme and forced
us to pass the gompa in the middle of the morning, which we
disliked even more. An official was established there, we had
been told, and in any case I did not wish in the least t o meet
the "trapas" of the place. T h e monks were much more to be
feared by us than ordinary villagers, for whereas the latter
seldom leave their homes and know but little of the world
beyond them, the enterprising clerical fellows travel all over
Thibet, in China, India, Mongolia, and even in far-away
Siberia. They see a lot of things and a lot of men, philings
included, and are as a rule much more alert than their lay
countrymen. W e walked again for a while and reached the
border of the woods. T h e ground had been cleared for cultivation, and our path, which had become very narrow, kept
skirting the fences that enclosed the fields. On our left side,
its edge ended abruptly above the river bank. The fires had
ceased to flare and were luckily far from the road. We proceeded quickly and in the utmost silence. T h e new moon had
Set- We vaguely discerned some black form which might have
been the walls of the monastery, and deemed it wise to wait
until dawn, lest we should mistake our way near the lamasery,

59

M Y JOURNEY T O LHASA
where several village paths probably crossed one another, and
where dogs would bark if we wandered about.
A cold wind swept the cliff, n o shelter was a t hand. The best
place we discove~edwas next a stone which screened us a little.
I had carried the rubber bottle under my dress t o prevent the
water from freezing on the way; still, it was far from being
even tepid when we drank a draught of it with a handful of
dry tlampa for our supper. Then I lay down on the ground,
keeping in my arm, as well covered as a child, the bottle containing the remainder of the water to drink when we should
awake. Small heads of rocks piercing through the earth made
a really painful couch, even for me, who from youth upwards
had been accustomed t o the bare boards affected by the Greek
stoics.
When we got up, a t the first rays of dawn, we saw the monastery standing a few steps before us and not a t all in the
direction we had thought it to be when arriving a t night.
We passed along the walls and made haste t o be out of
sight. A well-dressed native chief passed us on horseback,
coming from the road that leads toward Bhatang. He threw
us an indifferent glance without stopping.
We could now see that there was no suitable place near the
gompa where I could wait safely while Yongden made his purchases. Our way descended a narrow valley in which fiowed
a small tributary of the river Nu. Several farms and mills
had been built on its banks. We met also an important traders'
caravan coming from Lhasa. People were to be seen everywhere. I thought for a while that I could stay higher up in
the woods, but already a girl was driving cattle in that direction. We continued to walk, exceedingly annoyed a t moving
away from the gompa, for we urgently needed fresh supplies
of food. Healthy pedestrians like us have good appetites, and,
a t the risk of appearing a character devoid of all poetry, I
confess that I ate a large quantity of barley-meal butter, and
bread, when fortunate enough to get wheat-flour to make it.
And in that respect the lama was very like his adopted mother.
After crossing the small valley, I discovered some large

60

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
fields which were not t o be cultivated before spring. I remained here a few hours, seated behind bushes, reading a Thibean philosophical treatise, until Yongden, who had gone back
to the gompa, returned, loaded like a mule. W e then enjoyed
an exceptional meal-a
broth thickened with wheat-flour.
Filling our breast pockets with dried apricots, we started, off
cheerfully. I n the afternoon we again entered a wild region.
We met some pilgrims walking leisurely, who belonged to a
large party, numbering a t least fifty people, whose vanguard
we found farther along, already camped, boiling tea in cauldrons
the size of tubs.
Yongden was delayed a long time. Some asked him to tell
their fortunes, others t o foresee happenings of importance for
them or their families. M a n y came forward t o be blessed.
Seated on the ground, I watched with amusement the various
performances in which lama and believers played their parts
with the utmost gravity, tinged, however, by that special good
humour and overflowing gaiety which makes life among Thibetans so pleasant.
1 delightedly forgot Western lands, that I belonged t o them,
and that they would probably take me again in tlre clutches of
their sorrowful civilization.
1 felt myself a simple dokpa of the Koko nor. I chatted
with the women about my imaginary black tent in the Desert
of Grass, my cattle, and the feast days when the menfolk
race on horseback and show their cleverness as marksmen.
I knew by heart the region I described, for I had lived there
long, and my enthusiasm for my so-styled mother country
was so genuinely sincere that n o one could have guessed my
lie. . After all, was it entirely a lie? I am one of the
Genghis Khan race who, by mistake and perhaps for her sins,
was born in the Occident. So I was once told by a lama.
At sunset we again found the dark forest with huge trees.
Tile track was good, and as we had wasted so much time with
the pilgrims, we wished to continue walking as long as possible.
Going down toward a ravine in which flowed a small stream,
I noticed something lying on the ground, and on nearing it

.

61

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
saw that the object was an old fur-lined bonnet, such as ia
worn by the women of Kham. Yongden lifted it with the iron
end of his pilgrim's staff and threw it off the road. The bonnet
did not go far, nor did it fall on the ground. It flew rather
like a bird, and alighted, if I may use that word, on the broken
trunk of an enormous tree.
A strange intuition warned me that the ugly-looking, dirty
article was t o be of great use to me-that, indeed, it had been
sent to me-and
in obedience t o this occult suggestion I went
down the track t o fetch it.
Yongden did not like t o carry it. Thibetans, when on a
journey, never pick up even their own hats if they happen
t o fall from their heads t o the ground, and would think still
less of taking anyone else7s they found on the road. They
think that it would bring them bad luck. On the contrary, to
find a boot on the road is a good omen and often travellers
lift it, worn out and dirty as it may be, and place it for one
second on their heads! M y companion was free from such
superstitions, but the greasy fur disgusted him and he could see
nothing wonderful in such a find. A pilgrim, he said, had
put it on the top of the load he carried on his back, and the
bonnet had fallen off without its owner being aware of it.
Either that, or the pilgrim, on account of the prevalent superstition, had preferred to abandon it.
"I d o not go so far," I replied, "as t o believe that some milliner goddess has sewn it for me seated on a lotus in Paradise.
No doubt, a mere human being has lost it, but why has he or
she lost it just there?"
"Well,'7 rejoined my young companion, jokingly, "let US
think, then, that an invisible friend of yours has pulled it off
in order that it may fall on your way t d a y . A most ~recious
gift, indeed."
I said nothing more, but I carefully fastened the bonnet on
my load and we proceeded.
It had snowed in the forest some days before; white ~ a t c h e s
remained everywhere. Tired, we stopped at the entrance of a
transversal valley from which descended a large torrent flow-

62

M Y JOURNEY T O LHASA
ing toward the river Nu. After a search, Yongden discovered a camping-ground out of sight of the road. But the cold
wind swept that leafless spot. We therefore found a second
place, lower down and near the track.
Until now our tent had been of little use to us as a tent.
Since our departure, we had pitched it only once. But it was
precious as a blanket. We used to lie down, in Thibetan
fashion, with our luggage between us, so that nothing could
be taken without awakening us. We both had our revolvers
at hand. Our inner belts, containing silver and gold, were
often hidden near us between stones or buried under dry
leaves, or, if the country seemed safe, we placed them next
US. The tent was then spread over the luggage and ourselves
as well. When snow had fallen, that white tent spread on the
ground, with a few dry leaves and twigs strewn on it, looked
absolutely like a patch of snow amongst other patches, and we
felt quite safe under it.
SOwe slept that night under our favourite imitation of '(patch
of snow" laid near the road. We were really over-confident
about the illusion that we created. The trick was no doubt
excellent; still, it could not work if we were under the very
feet of the passers-by. Before daybreak, some traders passed,
and one of them noticed something strange about our t snow
patch."
''IS that men or snow?" he asked one of his companions.
"Snow," answered the fellow, who probably had not even
looked our way, but saw snow all over the wood. T h e first
who had spoken uttered a sound denoting doubt. We were
laughing silently under our tent; but as the man could have
thrown a stone at us t o ascertain our living or inanimate nature
-Thibetans being quick t o throw stones, for various purposes
-Yongden in a deep, sepulchral voice affirmed, "It is snow."
The loaded mules of the caravan started a t the noise and
the men laughed heartily. The lama then emerged from the
cloth, leaving me under it, and chatted a few minutes with the
traders, who were going to Atunze in Chinese Thibet.
"Are you alone?" they asked Yongden.
(

63

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
"Yes," he answered.
And they went their way.
T h a t morning we passed a village and reached a sr,nall tableland from which we discovered, far in front of us, steep hill
on which could be seen a threadlike path that c o ~Id be none
other than that over the "To la," which we were tc cross.
Those who wished to avoid the tiring climb and second pass,
the "Ku la," farther off, could follow a narrow p. th along the
river. Arjopm, we were told, went that way. B u t I had heard
that some parts of this path were exceedingly /difficult, and
that one had t o cling to the rocks, walk on all-fours, and
generally perform a series of feats which I did not feel tempted
t o undertake with a heavy load on my back. Better for us to
follow the tiring but safer road. I did not yet know that the
days would come when I could not avoid playing the equilibrist
on rocks overlooking precipices !
I lacked another and much more useful piece of information.
When looking a t the hill and the perpendicular, narrow yellow ribbon which crossed it, I thought only of the fatigue
of the climbing, and did not suspect that the whole success of
my journey would be in jeopardy before our ascent began. I
did not know, and so walked gaily down to the bottom of the
valley.
W e found a pleasant place next a stream, and feeling somewhat lazy, rested there for the remainder of the afternoon and
the night. We were even imprudent enough t o pitch our tent
to make ourselves more comfortable, although we knew that a
village was near us, beyond the stream.
Next morning, contrary t o our custom, we did not make
haste to start. A man came and talked a long time with Yongden, who invited him t o drink a bowl of soup. And then we
learned that we were loitering just in front of a Lhasa official's
house !
We could only curse our folly, but what was done
could not be undone. T h e man who had spoken with my
young friend was a soldier, a retainer of the official. Thus, if

i

64

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
any suspicion had arisen in his mind, and he reported i t t o his
chief, we could not escape our fate.
I suppose that, when we left the place t o proceed through
the dreaded village, there was something in our mien of people
sentenced to death and walking toward the scaffold.
On and on we went. T h e track skirted the fields and led
rather far from the houses. W e reached a chorten, around
which I walked thrice with an edifying countenance, touching
it with my forehead.
Higher 'and higher we were going; the official's dwelling was
now far behind us and nobody had stopped us. Near b y was
the border of the wooded zone.
We would shout i t loudly when reaching
"Lha gyalo!"
the summit above the village. W h a t joy would then be ours!
Once more we were to escape!
"Oi! Oi!"
A villager was running after us across the fields.
"You must come before the ponpo [chief]," he said.
These were the very same words with which I had been
stopped in Kham, after my hard journey through the snows,
and the crossing of the "Iron Bridge."
With perfect composure, Yongden immediately mastered
the situation. He put his load down on the ground, in order
to avoid the curiosity of the piinpo and his servants, who, had
they seen it, would most likely have wanted to look a t its contents. He did not even give me a glance, as if the thought
never occurred t o him that an insignificant old woman like
me could be worth the attention of a kudak (nobleman) !
"Let us go," he said to the man, and the two went off, chatting together.
I humbly squatted on the path, near our baggage. Taking
my Thibetan rosary from my neck, I made a pretence of telling the beads.
The words I had heard took me back to my previous advent

"The Gods win!"

An exclamation of triumph and good wishes for

the victory of the good and the gods, which Thibctons utter loudly,
especially at the top of passes and other summite.

65

M Y JOURNEY T3 LHASA
ture. Very likely the end, now, would be the same. Once again,
all the hardships endured would have been in vain. I saw
ourselves escorted back to the nearest Chinese frontier, passing
through the villages, a prey to the curiosity of the country folk.
Not for one minute did I consider the idea of giving up the
game. I had sworn that a woman should pass, and I would.
But when, and how, if it was not to-day?
Some time elapsed.
Presently I heard a voice. The
sound grew louder. Yongden was returning, chanting a Thibetan liturgy. If he came alone and singing.
It was a
sudden hope, nay, a certainty, which flashed .?cross my mind!
T h e young lama was before me, a mocking smile on his lips.
H e opened his hand and showed me a silver coin.
"He has given me a rupee as alms," he said. "Now let us
be off quickly."
Yongden had learned that the piinpo was stationed there
specially t o watch over the road and see that no traveller
crossing the pass should escape investigation. We could congratulate ourselves on our good luck, but we were far from
having finished with incidents of that kind. We had not long
t o wait before our nerves received a still greater shock.
T h e very same morning, a little farther on our way, we again
heard about a piinpo from a soldier who came llurriedly downhill t o attend to some relay business.
This one was crossing the range which we had just begun
to mount. T h e news terrified us. N o escape was possible.
T h e path lay along a steep slope that did not offer any hidingplace. T h e coming official would see us both. N o doubt he
would question us.
These Lhasa men, of whom a large number go to the English
stations in the Himalayas and even t o India, have many opportunities of seeing white people, and are much cleverer than
the common folk of eastern or northern Thibet in detecting
them. Anyhow, we could not escape the meeting.
We spent a few hours of terrible mental agony, listening
for a noise t o warn us of the dreaded apparition, looking desperately to the right and to the left in the hope that, as in

...

...

. ..

...

66

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
old tales, a rock or a tree would open suddenly and shelter
us till the danger was over. But, alas, n o miracle happened!
Fairies and gods left us apparently unaided.
In the middle of the afternoon we suddenly heard the jingling of bells. Just above our heads, on the winding path,
appeared a welldressed, sturdy man followed by soldiers and
servants leading horses. H e stopped, astonished a t the sight
of us. According t o Thibetan custom, we threw ourselves
hurriedly on the low side of the road, t o show our respectThe official proceeded downward and stopped again before us,
surrounded by his followers.
Now began the questions about our mother country, about
our journey and other things. When all had been said, the
ponpo still remained looking silently a t us, a s did all who were
behind him.
I felt as if needles were piercing my brain, so awful was the
tension of my nerves. Did these men doubt us? T h a t silence
must be broken or something bad would come of it. What
could I do?
Yes, I knew.
With the chanting tone of the Thibetan beggars, only a little moderated by reverence, I implored a charity.
"Kusho rimpoche, nga tso la siilra nang rogs nang [Noble
sir, give us alms, please!]"
My voice broke the concentration of the group. Even physically 1 felt the relaxation. The Thibetans had lost their suspicious manner. Some laughed. T h e good official took a coin
from his purse and handed it to my companion.
"Mother!" exclaimed Yongden, simulating a most happy
surprise, "look what the p6npo gives us !"
I manifested my joy in a way befitting my assumed personality, aith a wish-very sincere, and coming from the bottom
my heart-for the prosperity and long life of my benefactor.
The latter smiled a t me and I answered the favour of 1lis smile
with the most respectful of Thibetan salutes. I put out m y
as far as I could extend it.
" l e t ~ u n m a[reverend lady]," said Yongden, a few minutes
later, ('you spake truth indeed when you told me, in the forests
[lie

...

67

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
of Kha Karpo, that 'you would make them dream and see
visions.' No doubt that fat fellow and his retainers, who
looked so long a t you, have been bewitched."
Standing a t the top of the pass, we shouted, loudly and
heartily.
"Lha gyalo! De tamche pham [The gods win; the demons
are defeated] !"
B u t I did not allude t o the two kind ponpor in mentioning
demons; quite the contrary. May happiness befall them till
the last of their earthly days, and thereafter.

CHAPTER I11

T

HE joy which our double victory had left us was not

devoid of nervousness. W e were now on the alert and
expected to confront a ponpo a t each turning of the path- On
our way down, the jingling of a bell that we heard coming
in our direction gave us a terrible fright. T h e bell, however,
was attached to the neck of a goat, which soon appeared,
carrying some baggage belonging to a n aged couple going on a
pilgrimage to the Kha Rarpo.
The husband was a lean, tall khampa with bright eyes in a
bold wrinkled face suitable to a retired robber chieftain, and
the wife's slightly stooping figure still allowed one t o guess what
an energetic matron she had been. Together, with the goat bearing its queer head haughtily as if in utter disgust of the masters
who had enslaved her frail body but had not tamed her wild
little mind, they formed a most picturesque group.
The vivacious animal took the opportunity of our arrival to
turn its back and run away. T h e old people tried to run after
it, but they were not a match for that little demon, which
trotted a few steps, then stopped and looked a t them mockingly, and then started off again. It looked really intelligent
and worthy of a better lot than that of a beast of burden.
Yongden succeeded in catching it and leading it upward again.
The pilgrim pair thanked him profusely. Beholding the goat
which now waited patiently for them, the lama addressed the
two villagers seriously.
Be careful," he said, Kcto
be very #kindt o that beast. It has
been related t o you in a previous life when it was a human
being. On account of some bad deeds it has been reborn in
the sorrowful animal kingdom. On account, also, of previous
gwd actions, it has now got the happy chance of going t o the
Kha Karpo. Owing to the merit of that pilgrimage, it
((

69

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
will be once more a man in its next life, and you three will
meet again, so d o your best in order that feelings of friendship
may be cultivated between you which will bear good fruits in
the future."
T h e red hat of my companion, perhaps also the dark forest
that surrounded us and the first shadow of the evening that
spread all around, imparted a peculiar solemnity t o that astonishing oracular pronouncement. T h e old peasants looked
deeply impressed and expressed their gratitude to the seer
lama who had revealed t o them such an important mystery.
Before we started I saw the woman taking a few packages
out of the goat's load to lighten it, while the old man patted it.
"The little thing will be happy now," Yongden told me, as
we continued t o walk down the hill. "They will treat it kindly
and allow it t o die a natural death.
"Why did I invent that story? Really, I could not tell; it
came by itself."
"Could it not be," I suggested, "that you yourself in a previous life were related t o the goat?"
M y prophet friend stopped, gazing a t me, trying to guess
if I was joking or speaking seriously. H e did not appear to
appreciate that relationship much, even in a remote past.
I laughed.
"Well, well," said Yongden, "after all, a good beast deserves
much more esteem than many men who are but scoundrelg.
Let me be the oku of the goat, if you like. I d o not mind.
99
It was a nice little thing.
T h e incidents of the day had put a great strain on OW
nerves, and in spite of the little fun we had just enjoyed we
felt really tired and not in a mood either t o walk the whole
night or t o stay amongst talkative people in a village, even if
we could have reached one, which was rather doubtful. Our
road lay on the side of the range, which remained most of the
time in the shade, so that the streams were scalloped with ice
and the ground deeply frozen. T h a t circumstance did not
' Aku, paternal uncle.

...

70

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
pramise an agreeable camping; nevertheless, we decided t o
stay in a melancholy valley which crossed our path. Most
luckily, wood was lying on the ground in large quantities, but
even before a big fire we remained shivering, and the desolate
landscape seemed t o add t o the sensation of icy cold which
pervaded us.
To sleep unsheltered in such a spot seemed decidedly miserable. I thought that, although in pitching the tent we lost
the benefit of our blanket, we should be more comfortable
with a roof over our heads. We therefore filled two rubber
bottles with boiling water and slept with them under our
dresses, in the well-closed tent, whose thin cloth, however,
was a very feeble barrier against the cold.
We did not reach the village situated a t the foot of the Ku la
until the middle of the afternoon. Yongden visited a few houses
to purchase food, and the good people pressed him t o stay overnight because, they said, it was too late t o cross the pass that
day. We knew it, but we had travelled s o slowly during the
last week that we wished t o push a little ahead. Moreover,
I had not yet slept amongst Thibetans since leaving Yunnan,
and I deemed it prudent to delay until we should be farther
in the interior of Thibet before venturing on intimate contact
with the people of the country, thus giving them the opportunity of observing us a t close quarters.
SO Yongden, taking advantage of the fact that I had continued to walk while he was busy making his purchases,
pointed me out, already high on the winding path, and declared
that we should have thankfully accepted their kind hospitality
had we been together, but that he could not now call his old
mother back.
We cooked some soup for our supper by the roadside, and
crossed the pass a t about midnight. It was covered with
forests, and a grassy slope free of trees rose from the path
itself. Perhaps in daytime one could get a view of the surrounding country from its summit, but it was of course impossible t~ ascertain it a t night.
The climbing had warmed us, and tired us as well, so that

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
I felt tempted to pitch our tent among the evergreens that
grew in clusters on the small flat piece of ground forming
the top of the pass. W e were neither thirsty nor hungry, and
could have waited to drink tea until we had found water lower
down on the next day. B u t Yongden objected that a traveller
never spent the night on the summit of a pass, and that we
should be frozen t o death if we were foolish enough to stop
a n d sleep. It was nonsense; we should obviously have been
cold, after the heat produced b y our walk had cooled down, but
there was n o fear of freezing. B e that as i t may, it is difficult,
even for one who has had a partly foreign education from
childhood, to give u p entirely the ancestral notions of his native
land. T r u e Thibetans never spend the night on the top of the
pass, and the height of their mountains sufficiently explains
that custom, but I suppose that even in the middle of the
summer, and in a warmer country, most of them would still
strongly hesitate to depart from their time-honoured rule.
As my companion appeared so reluctant t o halt, I did not
want to press him. W e continued on our way. About an
hour later we reached a partly level, wide ground sheltered
b y huge trees but free from undergrowth. I n the night it
appeared extraordinarily majestic; a mountain stream roared
near by against a wall of whitish rocks and added greatly to
the impression caused by the site itself. This was an ideal
camping-place and we were not the only ones to appreciate it
as such, for, after having wandered about a little, Yongden
and I discovered several primitive hearths marking the spots
where travellers were in the habit of stopping to make tea.
Near one of them we slept without pitching our tent. We had
heard about brigands rambling between the two passes, waiting
for travellers, and did not want to attract their attention. Still,
we lighted a small fire to boil some tea.
I had seldom had a more sumptuous bedroom than that natural and immense hall whose tall pillars supported a roof of thick
foliage. It reminded me of the temple-like glade where I had
halted one night while rounding the Kha Karpo. But this
place was much larger and less gloomy.

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
The next day, I enjoyed a lazy morning t o compensate for
our nocturnal tramp. W e were eating a flour broth which m y
naturally excellent appetite, much increased by the pure air
and long daily walks, made me find delicious, when a man
appeared. He was one of the villagers who had accompanied
the baggage of the ponpo whom we met on the road, and had
nfitnessed the generosity of the gentleman. T o such a man we
could not be suspect, and moreover the smell of the broth kept
warm on the embers was a n attraction sufficient in itself. H e
came straight t o us, sat himself near the fire, and a talk followed our invitation t o take his bowl out of his amphagl and
to share our meal. This is never refused b y Thibetans, who
are capable of eating any amount a t any time.
As was to be expected, Yongden had t o cast lots and the
man went away, after having invited us t o his house in the
next village, called Gyatong.
We again crossed a minor pass during the morning. Thence
a steady descent on a good path led us to a cultivated area.
On reaching it, we met a large party of pilgrims, who certainly
numbered more than one hundred, mostly lay people, men and
women. Some of them stopped my companion for the inevitable business of casting lots. This time, however, the monotony of that work was relieved by the subject proposed to the
science of the seer by one of the enquirers. This man had
brought with him from his home a small ass which carried his
luggage. The object of the mo was t o know if it was good,
or not, to let the animal go round the Kha Karpo with his
Owner. If it were foreseen that the journey would turn out
badly, the beast would be left a t Pedo gompa and the villager
would take it home on his way back a t the end of his
pilgrimage.
The little long-eared fellow was not t o be consulted, but its
good luck had led it to a compassionate friend. Yongden afterward told me that he pictured t o himself all the steep climbing that would be hard on the tiny feet of the poor donkey,

' Amphag, the breast pocket formed by the wide dreu of the Thibetanr
tightly tied with a belt.

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
the high passes, now covered with deep snow, the frosty nights
t o be passed in the open, and all the other troubles which would
befall the little slave. How much happier it would be to get
a month's rest in the pleasant grazing grounds of the Pedo
Valley !
SO, after appropriate gestures and recitations, the oracle declared that without the least doubt the beast would die if it
only came in sight of the Kha Karpo, and that such a death
happening during a pilgrimage would greatly diminish the
merits and blessed results which each pilgrim expected from
his pious journey!
T h a t community of interests was created to insure that not
m l y the master of the animal, but all his companions would
look carefully to it that the latter be left behind a t Pedo!
Yongden was profusely thanked for his remarkable and most
valuable advice, and a few presents entered our provision bags
in gratitude. While the young man was delivering his oracle,
a well-dressed lama came into sight, accompanied by a few
retainers, all riding beautiful horses. As he proceeded 1
noticed that he was looking a t my son. Perhaps he too harboured in his mind ,some disquieting thoughts and would like
to learn the future from the "Red C a p S6nrhe" whose air, I
must admit, announced a high degree of proficiency. But
his rank did not allow him to humble his fine travelling robe
of bright yellow brocade by alighting on the dusty road. Perhaps he sighed when the ragged seer, who had by then finished lecturing his pilgrims, passed near him without asking
his blessing or showing any special mark of respect. Twice he
looked backward a t him, but seeing me and being
ashamed t o be caught paying attention to a mere arjopa, he
quickly turned his head, and I saw only his shining yellow back
and his large gilded travelling hat of wood which was a h o s t
the same shape as the roof of the monastery of which he was
the lord.
As it was still early, we did not wish to halt, and preferred
t o dispense with the invitation we had received. So, instead
of looking for the house of our would-be host, we endeavoured

74

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
to cross the village speedily. W e had nearly reached the end
of the inhabited zone when, passing by a farm, a door opened
in the enclosure of a courtyard, and, lo! the man whom we
had already met several times appeared as if out of the wall,
like a hobgoblin. I suppose that he must have been waiting
for us. Yongden tried vainly to parley with him, but the
farmer would not listen. W h y did we wish to proceed, since
we were certain not t o reach the next village before night?
The astonished villager put the question to us and we did not
know what answer to give him, for authentic arjopas sleep in
the jungle only when they cannot possibly avoid it. As a rule
they halt near some building, and when happy enough to be
called inside they never think of refusing the good luck. I
was very much annoyed, but feared t o seem strange in preferring the jungle t o the hospitality of a farm of comfortable
appearance. We therefore stepped in, uttering thanks and
blessings, and were shown to the top story, where lived the
family, the ground floor being, as usual, occupied b y stables.
This was the first time I had been the guest of Thibetans
in my r61e of a beggar. A Thibetan house had nothing new
for me, but my present disguise made things very different
from what they had been in the course of my previous journeys.
Although on those I did not indulge in Western customs, the
servants who followed me, m y fine beasts, and my good
lamaist attire kept my hosts respectful and distant. I enjoyed
all the privileges of quietness and privacy, or as much privacy
as there is in the East. And the life of a lama of rank is far
from being unpleasant. On the contrary, I could not now
expect much attention, but only, a t the best, the condescending
kindness of these coarse and common folk who would include
me in Yongden's train, his dress a s a member of the religious
order commanding a certain respect.
I was to experience various things which until then I had
only observed from afar. I should be sitting on the rough
floor of the kitchen, which was dirty with the grease of the
Soup, the butter of the tea, and the spit of the inmates. Wellmeaning women would offer me a scrap of a piece of meat

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
which they had cut on the lap of their dress which had been
used, maybe for years, as a handkerchief and a kitchen towel.
I should have to eat in the way of the poor, dipping my unwashed fingers in the soup and in the tea, to knead the tsampa,
and to d o any number of things which disgusted me. Yet
I knew that such penance would not be without reward, and
that under cover of my inconspicuous garb of a poor pilgrim
I should gather a quantity of observations which would never
have come within reach of a foreigner, or even, perhaps, of a
Thibetan of the upper classes. I was t o live near the very
soul and heart of the masses of that unknown land, near those
of its womenfolk whom n o outsider had ever approached. To
the knowledge I had already acquired about the religious
people of the country I would add another and quite intimate
one, concerning its humblest sons and daughters. For this it
was certainly worth while overlooking my disgust and making
the even more difficult sacrifice of delightful hours of solitude
in the enchanting jungle.
T h e man who received us was a rather wealthy villager.
Nevertheless, he allowed us to cook our own food, a broth of
which he took his share, thinking, perhaps, that it was his due
for having supplied a few turnips which he cut without peeling
or washing and threw in the pot. I n any other country, the
sand would have been noticeable in the soup, but I cannot
say often enough that Thibet is a land of wonder which
changes everything for the best. A t least it has always been
so for me. T h e broth was delicious.
Some neighbours called in the evening. They were all
informed by our host of the two Lhasa officials'
toward us, and Yongden declared boldly that these good gene
tlemen of O and Tsang- were religious-minded and that he was
accustomed to receive such bounties.
1 profited by the opportunity t o enquire about places where
we could expect t o meet other officials. I said that we had
exhausted our money and we would want to beg from them
food or silver on our way back home. I had invented that
story so as to inform myself as minutely as possible about the

76

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
pbnpor' residences. T h e peasants would think m y eagerness
to know the smallest details of the situation of the zongs was
due to the necessity of securing food. People who sought with
such earnestness to meet officials could not b u t appear honest
and respectable travellers who had nothing t o fear from the
authorities. Had the Thibetans whom I met during my journey
conceived the least doubt about my origin, such enquiry, and
the reason given for it, would have immediately dispelled their
suspicion.
That evening I heard that the military rolls were filled in
the Nu Valley in the very same way as in the north of Kham.
A number of villagers were enlisted who could remain a t home
and continue their ordinary work, b u t had t o join the troops
as soon as they were ordered. As wages they enjoyed several
advantages-exemption of taxes or of statute labour and sometimes a small salary paid generally in kind.
A thing which had surprised me very much, two pears before,
in Kham, had been t o hear the reports about the uncommonly
large number of soldiers stationed a t the new Thibeto-Chinese
border. One spoke of three hundred men in such a monastery,
three hundred in such another, three hundred again in a third,
and so on. The repetition of that number "three hundred"
first attracted my attention. I was accustomed to find such
repetitions in the sacred Scriptures of the Orient. I t was a
question, in some books, of five hundred followers, five hundred
chariots, five hundred sheep, five hundred n o matter what.
One had to understand that the conventional expression in
reality meant merely an indefinitely large number. I n later
literature the modest five hundred grew to be five thousand,
eight thousand, till they reached the eighty thousand of the
MahBy2nist Buddhist treatises, to which the good Thibetan
translators have still added a few thousands and hundreds of
their own. Now, the Thibetan staff seemed t o apply the same
methods to the reckoning of its regiments. I went to the bottom of the mystery and learned that strict orders were given
'Zong: originally

1

fort, but, by extension, nowadays any building that

is the seat of an official or o f a local chief o f tribe.

77

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
t o the people all along the Sino-Thibetan border to speak of
powerful troops stationed in the watch posts. Then, when 1
myself went to investigate on the spot, and discovered half a
dozen or ten warriors where three hundred were said to have
their abode, I was told that the remainder were "at home."
T h a t meant that the fifty or hundred which made up the
mythical three hundred were but villagers who would be provided with a gun and sent t o fight if the Lhasa government
deemed it wise. I n the meantime the actual rulers do not
appear t o trust their countrymen newly 'liberated" from the
Chinese rule. Several times I asked regular soldiers why they
were all men from central Thibet, and the answer was always
the same: "If the Khampas had good guns they would fire at
US."
On one occasion some of the regulars from Tsang told
me that a few years before, when they fought against the
Chinese in western Szetchuan, some of the Thibetan villagers
had fled away and, a t night, when the Lhasa troops were
camped in the conquered place, they returned with Chinese
soldiers and fell on them with their swords. I n view of this,
when it is considered indispensable t o arm the reserve soldiers
who remain a t home, the government supplies them only with
old-pattern Thibetan or Chinese guns. Men who held them in
their hands smiled when I asked the reason for it. "Those
from Lhasa," they said, "do not wish us to be able to match
their own soldiers. They know what some of us might do."
T h e hatred of the new Lhasa masters did not seem to have
reached that degree in the Tsarong and Tsawarong valleys;
but even though they are patiently accepted, it is easy to understand that they are not much liked.
We left the hospitable farmers a t dawn, and ~roceededon
our way along the valley.
Few landscapes in the world can compete with the graceful
yet majestic scenery of the Nu Valley. We crossed large
meadows strewn with rocks of different sizes and shapes, where
trees of various species grew, here, isolated, there in clusters,
yonder forming groves, as if they had been trimmed and
planted where they stood by some artistic gardener. An air

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
of gentle mystery, of pristine purity, spread over everything.
I seemed to be walking across a picture out of an old book of
legends, and would not have been very startled had I suddenly surprised some elfs seated on sun rays, or come upon
the Enchanted Palace of the Sleeping Beauty.
The weather continued t o be glorious, and, strangely enough,
though shallow ponds and rivulets were frozen, the night was
not really cold.
The queer glimmers of hidden fires that had puzzled us in
the Kha Karpo forest reappeared in the darkest recesses of this
natural park. They became s o much a part of the nocturnal
landscape that we did not trouble any more about them, whatever their cause may have been.
Every day we met groups of pilgrims journeying toward
the holy Kha Karpo. Villages were near enough to allow them
to spend the nights in shelter. For my part, I preferred t o
sleep under the trees, shrouded in silence and serenity.
Wild animals seemed scarce in the valley. Once, when I
remained awake longer than usual, I saw a wolf passing near
US.
It trotted by with the busy yet calm gait of a serious
gentleman going to attend t o some affair of importance.
Although it was well aware of our presence, it did not show
the least curiosity or fear, but went its way with the utmost
indifference, as if intent on affairs of its own.

I have said that, when putting on my Thibetan disguise 1
used Chinese ink to blacken my hair. I t did not prove a very
fast dye; a great part of the stuff came off on the turban
which I wore after the Lutzekiang fashion. I therefore revived
the jet-black colour of my ~ I a i t sfrom time t o time. Needless
to say, during this work my fingers got their share of dye!
But this did not matter much, for the ~ersonalityof the old
beggar mother which I had assumed required me to be as
dirty as possible, and I frequently used to rub my hands on
the smoky bottom of our kettle t o match the colour of these
of the country womenfolk. So ink could not be conspicuous.
On one occasion when I begged in a village of the Nu Valley,

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
this dye gave birth to a comical, although rather unpleasant,
incident.
I had gone from door t o door, reciting prayers according to
the custom of needy pilgrims. A good housewife called Yongden and me inside for a meal, and poured in our bowls curd
and trampa. T h e custom is t o use one's fingers t o mix them.
So, forgetting all about the hair and ink business t o which I
had attended a few hours before, I dipped m y fingers in my
bowl and began t o knead the flour.
B u t what is this? It becomes black; dirty streaks appear
and grow wider on the milky meal.
Oh, I see! The dye
on my fingers comes off. W h a t is t o be done?
Yongden, who has just glanced a t me, sees the catastrophe.
Comic as it is, the situation is nevertheless serious. I t could
provoke embarrassing questions, lead to the discovery of my
identity.
"Eat quickly!" the lama advises in a suppressed but most
W h a t a nasty taste!
imperative tone. I try.
"Eat, eat quickly!" urges my young companion desperately;
"the nemo [hostess] is coming back to us." And shutting my
eyes, I hastily swallow the contents of the bowl.
W e proceeded through this beautiful country toward the
monastery of Dayul. Though previous meetings with p o n p o ~
had all ended nicely for me, I had not the least desire to
take willingly more chances of that kind. So, knowing that
a n official resided a t Dayul, I had decided to pass the place
a t night.
T h e thing appeared plain enough. Yet for us who did not
know the region, who had n o milestones as guides and who
moved in a dense forest, it was rather difficult t o regulate our
gait in order to arrive a t the monastery a t the time chosen.
One morning some villagers told us: "You will reach Dayul
teday." This was news, but how vague! Was one to make
haste, or t o take it leisurely s o as to arrive during the
d a y ? We could not guess. T h e Thibetans, like most
country people, except the Chinese, have no ~ r e c i s eidea of

...

...

80

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
distance. The latter can a t any moment on any road tell you
how many lis it is from one place t o another.
Out of fear of emerging from the woods in front of the
gompn before night had fallen, we spent a part of the day hidden under the trees near the river, eating and musing, with the
result that, the monastery being farther than we had supposed,
we tramped for a long time a t night before discovering it.
Through the Eden-like valley, even more romantic in the
darkness, we proceeded in complete silence, straining our eyes
in vain in an endeavour to discern shapes of buildings on the
opposite shore of the river on which, we knew, stood the manastery. We had nearly become convinced that, having delayed
too long on the way, we should not reach it before daybreak.
As the time passed my anxiety increased. I walked nervously ahead when I saw white forms, like walls, in the middle
of the widening path. We had arrived near two mendongr separated by ch6rtens and surrounded by a large number of mystic
flags. We could still see no houses on the opposite bank, but
I was too well acquainted with Thibet t o have the least doubt
that we were in front of the monastery. A few minutes later
we reached the bridge spanning the river in front of the gompa
about which we had been told. We knew that we did not need
to cross it, although in addition t o an important track going
to Dowa and other places, several bypaths existed, on the right
bank of the river Nu, which we could have followed. But I
had decided to continue on the left bank, in order to avoid
the monastery completely.
The night was clear, stars shone in the sky without a cloud,
Yet their dim light did not allow us t o see far ahead. T h e path
we had followed for many days seemed t o end near a second
bridge, about which I had heard nothing. Anyhow, no other
Passage appeared possible and we were in a great hurry to be
far from the gompa.
The bridge once crossed, we found ourselves walking on
amongst which water streamed everywhere. We pushed
On for some distance; then I became convinced that we had

81

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
missed the way. We went back, crossed the bridge again, and,
while nearing its end, we heard a feeble noise. I n no time
we hid ourselves behind a wall close to the river. Then I
looked around me. Heavens! We were in a small courtyard!
A few steps away people were probably sleeping who might
awaken and discover us.
Taking the utmost care t o avoid being heard, we went out
and walked toward the mendong t o look for another way.
But except for the two bridges, it really seemed that there was
none.
We hardly knew what to think. W e might have been misinformed or have misunderstood the directions that had been
given t o us, but we could not remain there to ponder over the
matter. W e must make haste to leave the vicinity of the monastery and go wherever we could, a t the risk of trying to find
the right way again on the morrow, if we had missed it, or
even of being compelled to change our itinerary.
Then Yongden went t o scout beyond the bridge which was
in front of the gompm. A t length I vaguely discerned the
whitish mass of the monastery outlined in a recess of the
hillside. It reminded me of the chagzam and of my last
failure
and a t this particular moment such a memory
had nothing pleasing in it! Under the feet of the lama
the planks of the bridge made an awful noise. Then silence
fell for a long time, until finally I heard the noise made
by the young man in returning. It is impossible, I thought,
that nobody has been awakened. Soldiers or servants
will come. I awaited a shout calling the night traveller,
commanding him to come forward, show himself and tell why
he was roaming a t that hour. I feared even worse; shots in
the night; a bullet which, perchance, might hit Yongden
T h e report of the scout was not encouraging. He had seen
but one path leading from the shore to the gompa; the tracks
probably started from behind the buildings.

.. .

' Chagzam, the

"Iron Bridge,'P which I crowed in rather dramatic cir-

CUmstances in a previous journey.

82

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
Whatever it might be, we did not want t o risk ourselves
near the monastery.
The noise made by m y companion had rendered a quick
flight still more urgent. W e ran toward the first bridge we had
crossed, passed again through the water and amongst the
stones and reached a small shrine built under a tree. 'I'here
our path divided in two. We turned to the left without knowing why, climbed a steep winding path, and arrived a t a
village. Beyond it, higher up, we lost ourselves amongst
irrigation canals and fields built terrace upon terrace. Where
were we to go?
Once more Yongden put his load down beside me and
started scouting. I sat on crumbling stones, fearing, each time
that I moved, t o slide down the slope. A cold wind arose; I
shivered, crouched amongst the baggage. Suddenly a dog
barked above me and continued for a long time, tiring my
over-strained nerves. Was the lama in that direction? Would
he find the road? H e did not come back. Several hours went
by, as I could see by the radium dial of m y small watch which
I consulted again and again. W h a t had happened t o him?
Far away big stones began t o roll down.
W h a t was
that? A small landslide only, or an accident?
. I n the
dark, a slip caused by a shadow is enough t o send the wanderer rolling down t o break his neck on the rocks or b e
drowned in the river. I stood in readiness to go and look
for the young man. H e stayed too long; something bad must
have happened. I went a few steps; all was darkness around
me. How could I discover him? And if he came back while
I was away, how frightened he would be a t the sight of the
loads abandoned and myself gone. And would either he or I
be able in the darkness to find the place where we had left
the luggage? If no one remained there, who could signal as
faintly as possible to the one who came back? Prudence
commanded me to stay, and my inactivity added to the anxiety
which tormented me,
The scout appeared a t last. I had guessed right. H e had
fallen and been carried down with sliding stones. Happily,

...

...
..

83

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
he had stopped on a small platform, while a boulder jumped
near him and continued its course down. H e was a little
excited, as well he might be, after such a narrow escape, but
his main thought was about the road. H e had found none.
T h e situation was critical. W e could not think of remaining
perched on that bare slope where we could be seen from all
sides a t the first gleam of dawn.
W e must go down, I said, if need be, as far as the mendong
in front of the gompa. I n that way, if people see us in the
early morning we will not appear strange, and can pretend
that we have slept a t the monastery or near it. There was
nothing else to do. W e once more crossed the village, but
the night faded as we wandered. As soon as we had reached
the last house it was daybreak.
It was necessary, now, to go farther down. If asked
whence we were coming, we could answer quite plausibly that
we were coming from the monastery. There remained only to
ascertain if the path on which we were was the right one.
Yongden left me seated against the fence around a field,
and, going up again t o the farms, he knocked a t a door. A
half-awakened man opened a window of the upper story, and
from him, the lama learned that we had but to climb again
t o about the place where 1 had spent a part of the night, and
keep on to another village.
I quickly took up my load, and I for the third time, and
Yongden for the fifth, together crossed that tiresome village.
W e proceeded as silently and as quickly as we could, deeming
i t prudent t o avoid the inhabitants. As for the man of whom
my son had asked his way, he could speak of but one lonely
lama pilgrim, for he had not seen me.
We arrived a t the top of the hill, where we found several
big houses. One of them looked ~articularlylarge and well
built. Most likely i t was the abode of one of those petty
princes who, before the Lhasa government had annexed eastern Thibet, were independent rulers, each one on his own
small territory. Or it might have been that the Lhasa official
lived there, and not in the monastery, as we had understood*

84

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
From there we could easily see Dayul g o m p a beneath us.
People were already afoot. A woman appeared and I went
piously round a chiirten, which is the proper thing for a pilgrim to do at the beginning of the day. There was a crossroad here, but my young friend did not see it. H e thought that
my wanderings meant t h a t I had found n o path on the other
side and disappeared a t full speed u p a road opening on his
right. I followed hastily t o tell him t h a t he was turning his
back to the river Nu, but before I could join him a man barred
his way and politely, yet with an inquisitive look which
turned my blood cold, asked him several questions about his
country, his journey, and the like; but to m y astonishment he
did not look a t me. Nervous, overtired b y his exertion during
the previous night, Yongden answered blunderingly. I was
dying of fear!
We learned that we had made a mistake, and had taken the
Chiamdo road, instead of that of Zogong. W e retraced our
steps, but now we had been seen and that villager with his
suspicious look and his inquisitive questions knew which way
we had gone.
What a result for all the trouble we had taken during a
whole night!
At sunrise we saw once more Dayul gompa, all white in its
nest of green woods. I feared the man would inform the ponpo.
I calculated the time he would take in going down t o the monastery, seeing the official, saddling a horse, and for a rider to
catch up with us. It could not have taken very long. Yet
nobody appeared behind us.
But yes, there is a peasant!
He carries a bag; he is on foot.
T h e p6npo would
"Ot send a man after us with a load on his shoulders.
He
"ertakes US; he is gone.
T h e path is empty behind US.
We continue our walk.
A jingling of bells makes us start. A horseman approaches.
I straighten my back. I d o not want t o faint, but I feel the
leaving my brain, everything around me swims and
darkens. I have just the time t o move to the side of the path,

...

...

...

...

85

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
t o avoid being knocked down by the horse. The man has
passed us; the tinkling grows fainter and finally ceases.
W e are still far from being completely reassured, but emotion and a long tramp have exhausted our strength. Below
the road, cut high on the hill, a series of large natural terraces
descends in steps down t o the river.
They, also, in the rosy light of the early morning, remind
me of fairyland gardens. Autumn leaves blaze in their golden
and purple tints around the dark greens of the fir trees.
Strewn on the grass, sprinkled in places with a fine snow, they
make a carpet such as no emperor has ever seen in his throne
room.
I tell Yongden t o follow me down. W e quickly boil our
tea and eat some tsampa with a ferocious appetite. Emotions
may tire me, but can never prevent me from eating or sleeping.
Sleep is especially needed. And now the sun is shining and
will keep us warm.
W e continued on our way in the afternoon and .reached a
hot spring. There are quite a number of them all over Thibet,
but we had not yet come across any since we left Yunnan. I
felt delighted a t the prospect of a warm bath. A rustic basin
had been built with stones for that purpose, near a rocky wall
which sheltered it. I had only t o wait until night to enter the
water without any fear of allowing the colour of my skin to
be seen by occasional passers-by!
Judge of my annoyance when a family of ~il~rirns-father,
mother, and three children--came and itched their camp next
us! I had not the least doubt that they would all sit in the
basin, for Thibetans are very fond of hot natural baths, and
as they had not the same reasons as I for waiting until night,
I would get the water in which they had already bathed!
Although the spring bubbling a t the bottom of it sent a continual stream through the small artificial pool which overflowed
through a specially built canal, I did not like that idea at all.
But, of course, all happened a9 I had foreseen. Yongden,
whom I told to hurry to enjoy the clean water, reported to me

86

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
when he returned that his bath had been shortened by the
entrance of the father and three sons into the water!
I could but wait, and I waited long. T h e happy sensation
produced by the hot water in that cold country kept the four
Thibetans under its spell for more than one hour. Night had
fallen and a cold wind promised little comfort for the moment,
since on coming out of the bath I should have to d r y myself
in the open with my one-foot-square towel! Still more delay
was caused by my desire to allow time for the water of the
bath to be changed, but I started a t last for the spring, after
having been earnestly entreated b y Yongden t o avoid washing
my face, which had now become nearly the orthodox colour
of a Thibetan countrywoman.

A few days later, on a sunny morning, we were walking
leisurely on the bank of the river when two lamas dressed in
lay clothes reached us, coming up from behind. T h e y asked
about our country and many other details for a rather long
time, and one of them stared a t me with peculiar insistence.
They said that they were in the service of the Governor of
Menkong and carried a message from him to the officer residing
at Zogong.
We both noticed the way one of them had looked a t me, and,
as anybody in our circumstances would have done, we began
to fancy the worst. Maybe some rumours had spread after
our leaving Menkong and had only recently reached the GOVernor, who had dispatched these two to inform his colleague
and order him to ascertain who we were.
Previous disquieting meetings had come t o a quick end- B u t
this one left a lasting terror in its wake. Zogong, where we
should know our fate, was still far away, and each day brought
the same question. Were we not walking toward our doom?
We reverted to our nocturnal tramps. W e had become
again the scared game dreaming of the hunter. One morning
at dawn a party of pilgrims met us and stopped to exchange
a few words. According t o my custom, I continued to walk
slowly ahead while Yongden was talking with the men. When

87

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
he rejoined me he was more frightened than I had ever seen
him.
"They are people from Riwoche," he said. "Who knows if
they have not seen you when you went there with Thobgyal?
You are quite famous in that region."
Riwoche is the site of a once celebrated monastery, now half
ruined. I had stayed there twice during a previous journey in
Thibet after having entered the forbidden zone through the
Iron Bridge.
Our fears grew.
Hour by hour they became greater.
At the sight of each group of men or women who happened
t o pass us we trembled, thinking of the catastrophe that
awaited us. Truly, this way rnadniss lay.
I n that mood we reached a bridge on the river Nu, near a
big village called Porang.
"Let us take a chance," I said to my companion. "On this
side of the stream we run the risk of meeting old acquaintances
from the province of Kham, because that is the way by which
they go t o Kha Karpo. W e shall also have t o cross Zogong,
where these lamas have perhaps spoken about us, even if they
have not been sent t o catch us. Here is a bridge-there are
few in Thibet-showing that there is a trail of some importance on the other bank. T h e Giamo Nu River flows in that
direction. Let us try to reach it and we will then see what can
be done."
W e therefore crossed the bridge and bravely climbed the
trail beyond it, without knowing where it would lead us.
T h a t evening we slept a t an isolated farm, and on the morrow, continuing through wild forests, we crossed the R a Pass.
We had been told a t the farm that the region beyond was cornpletely uninhabited except for a few dokpas, who moved with
their cattle along the valleys enclosed between two high ranges.
Our good luck brought us on the second day near to an
encampment of cowmen. They gave us some butter and
tsampa, but did not allow us t o sleep in their hut. There were
about forty armed men assembled around it, and I guessed
that they were preparing a robbing expedition, so they naturally

...

...

88

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
did not wish to discuss their plans before unknown travellers.
We begged from other camps near by and were given a good
deal of cheese, butter, and tsampa. After a night spent in the
open, we started, heavily loaded, but certain t h a t starvation
was not imminent!
The' country we were crossing had none of the charms of
the Nu Valley. I t was colder and often barren. T h e trails
were difficult to find.
In the morning, after having set out from the dokpas' camp,
we crossed a clear river, climbed a very steep path, and then
missed our way. W e had already wandered about two hours
when some sharp-eyed cowboys discovered us on the slope of
the mountain. Thev themselves had wandered far from their
camp with their cattle, and now were almost beneath us, but
at a considerable distance. Their shouts arrived faint and
indistinct, and a t first we did not understand that they were
addressed to us. By straining our ears we succeeded in catching some words. W e were t o turn back, and then to proceed
upwards.l
From the Pang la, an endless descent through forests led t o
large rocky caves inhabited in the summer by C O W ~ I ~ A
~ t.
that time of the year a torrent near by supplied them with
water, but it was now quite dry, so that in the absence of
water we continued our way, although the shelter of these
roomy caves tempted us. Farther down we reached a t dusk a
hamlet composed of three farms. T h e looks of the men who
came out to examine us and enquired about our beasts and
luggage were not very reassuring, but, though they were a
rough lot, they treated us well in the end.
In the evening, as we were seated with them near the fire,
Sane one spoke about Lhasa, and, incidentally, uttered the
J

Besides being prompted by their natural kind-heartedness, hib be tans
are always ready to direct a wayfarer because such an act is considered
by them
highly meritorious and bearing good fruits in this life and
the next one. On the contrary, to mislead any traveller is believed to
have vrious results; the "consciousnesj" (nmrher) of one who has done
will roam painfully in the Bardo, after its separation from the body,
at death, being unable to find the road leading to a new rebirth.

89

M Y JOURNEY T O LHASA
dreaded word "philingr." T h e y had heard about their existence from some of their relatives and friends, who had been
to Lhasa or in China, but they had never seen any and none
had ever visited their country. Yongden boasted of having
met two of them in northern Thibet, but for my part I humbly
confessed that I had never caught sight of any!
T w o days later, from the summit of a sandy hill, we discovered, several thousand feet below us, a narrow glittering ribbon.
It was the Giamo nu chu, the upper course of the Salween.
W e had heard that somewhere in that region there was a
place called Tsawa, where the river could be crossed by a cable
stretched from one bank to the other. B u t as passengers were
very few on that out-of-the-way path, the ferrymen lived far
from the river and came there only when they were informed
that a number of people meant t o cross. We poor lone pilgrims might have remained for weeks in front of the rope but
for the happy circumstance that a lama had ~erformedsome
religious ceremonies a t the house of the very farmer whose
guests we had just been, and was returning t o his monastery
on the othtr side of the Giamo nu chu, with a dozen of his
followers.
W e waited only one d a y for his arrival in a pretty, sheltered
place between picturesque red rocks. T h e weather was gloriously bright and the temperature mild.
T o cross a river hanging to a cable was not new t o us. We
had done it in other places. But a t these other places, two
different cables, one for each direction, were used to carry the
passengers, who, starting from a point much higher than the
landing-place, glided swiftly, as if on a switch-back.
Here there was but a single cable fastened to poles fixed a t
the same level on either bank, and it sagged terrifyingly.
Only the strongest of the countrymen dared t o venture to
cross by it unaided, for the climbing up from the bottom of
the sag by the sheer strength of one's wrists was rather a feat.
Most of them were therefore hauled up by ferrymen, as were
the animals and baggage.

90

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
When my turn came, a Thibetan girl and I were bound with
rough straps, and tied together t o a wooden hook t h a t would
glide on the leather cable. Dressed u p in t h a t way, a push
sent us swinging in the void, like two pitiable puppets.
In less than one minute we were down in the middle of the
dip, and then, from the other bank, the ferrymen began their
work. Each jerk they gave a t the long towing rope caused us
to dance in the air a most unpleasant kind of jig.
This went on for a little while; then we felt a shock, heard
a splash below us, and slipped back a t full speed into the
sagging dip of the cable.
The towing rope had broken!
The accident in itself did not endanger our lives. M e n would
come to fasten the rope that they were drawing out of the
water. But giddiness might overcome us, suspended as we
were two or three hundred feet above the swift current.
The way in which we were trussed up afforded security for
a conscious passenger in an erect ~ o s i t i o nwhose hands had a
strong grip on the strap under the hook. But this was not t o
be depended upon in the case of anyone who collapsed or
dropped backward. M y nerves are solid. I had no doubt I
could stand there even for hours.
But what of my companion? She was rather pale and looked
with frightened eyes a t the point where the strap to which we
were suspended was fastened t o the hook.
"What is the matter with you?" I said. "I have called my
T~awailama to protect us. You need not fear."
With a slight motion of the head she indicated the hook.
I(
The strap is coming loose," she said, trembling.
If the strap came loose
then we would fall in the deep
river.
Tied as we were, swimming was out of the question. Even could I disentangle myself and drag the girl for
awhile, there was n o landing in that gorge where the river
flowed between gigantic walls of rocks. I looked attentively
at the knots, but could notice nothing wrong.

...

1

.. .

Spiritual father.

91

M Y JOURNEY T O LHASA
"Shut your eyes," I said to the girl. "You are giddy. Nothing is loose. W e are quite safe."
"It is loosening," she repeated, with such a convinced tone
that I began t o doubt. This Thibetan lass who had often
crossed rivers in that way naturally knew more than I did
about knots, straps and hooks.
I t was, therefore, only a question of time. Would the men
have repaired the towing rope and taken us on land before all
the knots gave? I t might have been the subject of a bet. I
thought it over, and smiled inwardly. The slow way in which
the ferrymen were working was rather irritating. At last one
of them proceeded toward us, hands and feet up, the way
flies walk on the ceiling. W e swung again, and more than ever.
"She says that the knots of the straps are coming loose," I
told him as soon as he reached us.
"Lama kieno!" l he exclaimed. H e gave a hasty look in the
direction of the hook. "I cannot see it well," he said. "I
hope it will hold fast till you arrive a t the bank."
H e hoped!
Bless the fellow! I also "hoped."
H e went away, working with his hands and feet, just as
he had come. When he had joined his companions they began
to haul us again. Would the knots bear these repeated jerks?
W e continued to "hope" they would.
At last we had safely landed on a ~rojectingrock of the
cliff. Half a dozen women took hold of us, expressing their
sympathy in loud exclamations. T h e ferryman who had untied
us had ascertained that the knots had never loosened, and
were cursing the girl whose notion had given them such a
fright. T h e poor thing did not need that addition to her
nervousness. She became hysterical, weeping and shrieking.
It was a scene of picturesque confusion.
Yongden seized the chance of this general commotion to beg
for "his aged mother, who had suffered such agony while

...

' "Know it, 0 Lama!" a call asking one's spiritual father to cast his
look on one who stands in distress and needs protection, but the habit of
repeating it frequently has made it a mere interjection.
92

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
hanging to that rope, and needed a good meal with which to
refresh herself." All those present gave really liberally and
we set out loaded with a fresh supply.

I had already noticed that my headgear, arranged after the
Lutzekiang fashion, attracted a good deal of notice. We began
to be rather far from the country where it Was worn- It now
looked conspicuous, and people questioned me about m y
native land. The day after the crossing of the Gismo nu chu
at Tsawa, the nemo of a farm where we had slept, and other
people there, made several embarrassing observations about
the way in which my hair was dressed and m y turban fixed.
At any rate, I needed a Thibetan hat, but none could be
bought in the villages which were on m y road, men and women
countryfolk going bareheaded. T h e time had truly come for
the plain bonnet of Kham, of a shape known and worn all
over Thibet. I had done well t o have washed i t and kept i t
carefully in my luggage. As soon as I began to wear it all
questions and curiosity were a t an end. Later on I had
another reason to bless it. When I crossed high passes
amongst glaciers and snow, and when the blizzard raged around
me, then the poor fur-lined bonnet kept my head and ears
warm and protected me against frost and wind.
Who could still doubt that it had been sent to me, as 1 felt
on the day we found it in the forest? I often asked Yongden
this question and we both smiled in answer. But I would not
dare to affirm that a t the bottom of my heart, after having
experienced the various kinds of protection which it offered
me, I did not feel still more inclined t o believe that it had truly
been rent to me by some mysterious friend.
At any rate, 1 like t o fancy it.
We were now in a more ~ o p u l a t e dregion. The whole of
the low ground was cultivated, and the higher part of the hills
completely bare. Our road crossed a large number of minor
ranges which cut across the Giamo nu chu valley. Each day
Wehad to climb up and down several thousand feet, and some-

93

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
times that drill was even performed twice in the course of the
same day.
A new subject of anxiety agitated our minds. We had heard
that the Lhasa government had sent officials in remote parts
of the country t o establish a new system of taxation. These
ponpos, moving across the country with hosts of retainers,
each more inquisitive and arrogant than his master, constituted a real danger t o us. W e devoted nearly all our time
to discussions as t o the best way of escaping unwelcome meetings. It did not seem easy, though, to reach the P o country
which we had decided to cross on our way to Lhasa. We had
the choice of two roads. W e could go t o Sangnachoszong or
wind a long way northward through the Sepo Khang Pass.
B u t Sangnachijszong was the residence of a ponpo, and on the
other road the envoys of the Thibetan exchequer were
reported to be wandering in the neighbourhood of Ubes. The
gentleman seated in his house appeared more easy t o avoid
than his colleagues, who might be met on the road unexpectedly.
This ought t o have decided me t o turn in that direction, all
the more because the way was direct and saved us a long
march in rounding a range. B u t I knew that Sangnachoszong
had been visited by some foreigners, while I had never heard
that any had ever crossed the Sepo Khang la and the
neighbourhood,l and this decided me ti prefer the latter.
I n a country so little known as Thibet it seems better to
avoid following tracks that have already been trod, every time
one has the chance t o d o so.
Anyhow, I was still undecided when, after having slept at
Yu, I ascended the pass which led to the junction of the roads
of SangnachGszong and of Lankazong. Evening came while
we were crossing a cold slope whose streams were but thick
blocks of ice. Happily we found, a little out of the way, an
abandoned dokpar' camp and we spent the night in one of the

' More exactly Sang ngags ch6s zong, the fort of the doctrine of the
secret spells, or, as others call it: Tsang kha chu zong, the fort of the
pure spring.
' Information gathered later on confirmed the fact that none had Yet
crossed that mountain range.

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
huts near a blazing fire. T h e morrow we crossed the pass. A
terrible storm rose in the evening and raged throughout the
night. In the darkness we failed to discover the road t o the
village which we knew was near, as we had heard dogs barking.
The violence of the wind did not allow us to open our loads
to get out our tent-blanket and throw it over us. W e remained
squatted, shivering till daybreak, when the wind gradually
abated. Then we saw that we were less than half an hour's
walk from the village, near the gorge in which ran the road
to Sangnachos~on~.
We had now to make a decision. I turned again toward
the Giamo nu chu. T h e country and its people interested
me. I did not want to miss the unique opportunity t o see
some more of it and them, or to cut my journey short. As for
the Ubes ponpos, I would take my chance.
Since landing on the right bank of the Giamo nu chu our
existence had become that of true Thibetan wayfarers. We
no longer hid ourselves in the forest. On the contrary,
lingering in the villages had become a pleasure t o us. Each
stage brought us amongst the countryfolk, and we stayed all
night with them, witnessing their customs close a t hand, and
listening to their talk about the events happening in 'll~ibet.
NO traveller other than one who was really believed by them
to belong to the same peasant stock could have gathered the
same treasure of observations that I collected.
Such a life could not be lived without bringing adventures
in its train, and they were often adventures of a most unexpected kind. Nearly every day supplied its contribution,
pleasant or otherwise, but always full of humour. 1 have
amassed in that region a store of fun sufficient t o keep one
merry for years. It would be quite impossible t o relate in
exten~oall these incidents, but the account of a few will give
the reader some picture of country life in Thibet.
One morning while kneeling on the pebbles, filling my
wooden bowl at the river, I hear a voice behind me.

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
"Where do you come from, Lama?"
I turn my head and see that a peasant has approached my
adopted son. A few words are exchanged, and these are
always the same a t every encounter: "What country do you
come from? Where are you going to? Have you anything
t o sell?"
But this time, after having satisfied his curiosity with the
answers given to him, the man does not go away. H e remains
silent for a few seconds, spits, and then begins:
"Lama, d o you know how to tell fortunes?"
Good! Here is another of them! Telling fortunes, we are
doing it all the time, and a t any rate we cannot complain,
for if our r61e of prophet is somewhat monotonous, it certainly
yields a useful profit and admirably conceals our identity.
Yongden allows himself t o be entreated. Yes, he does know
the a r t of mo, but he has no time; he is in a hurry.
T h e peasant persists, exclaiming: "Lama, three days ago
one of my cows disappeared. W e have been looking for it in
vain. Has it fallen down a precipice? Has it been stolen?"
H e sighs and, lowering his voice, continues, "The people on
the other side of the river are awful brigands."
For my part, I cannot help thinking that "the people on the
other side" may have the same flattering opinion of their compatriots opposite, and that both parties have undoubtedly very
good reasons for their views.
"They are quite capable," the man continued, "of having
killed and cut m y cow in pieces, and taken it away to eat.
Lama, consult the oracle! Tell me what has become of
m y cow and whether I shall find it again. . I have nothing
t o offer you just now, but if you will go to my house I will
give you and your mother something to eat, and you can both
sleep there to-night."
I am the mother. The people of this country are astonishingly clear-sighted! I t is useless to lie to them. They invent
many more wonderful stories about us than any we could passibly concoct ourselves.

...

...

96

. .

M Y JOURNEY T O LHASA
Mendicant pilgrims, such as we appear t o be, never refuse
an invitation of the kind just issued to us. I have n o desire
to appear a suspect, especially since I have learned of the
presence of the two officials who are retaking the census of
the villages in the district.
I sign to Yongden t o accept the fellow's offer. H e puts his
load down upon a flat rock, saying with a condescending air,
'Well, I suppose I must grant your request, since it is the duty
of a lama to be compassionate."
Many edifying phrases follow, and then the ceremony begins.
Muttering the sacred formulz, but shortening them as much
as possible, my young companion counts and recounts the beads
of his rosary. I can follow his thought. H e is asking himself:
"Where is this unlucky cow to be found? I know nothing
about it. T h a t is not the question, however. W h a t is the
best thing to say t o the poor fool who is asking me?"
The old Thibetan is squatting there, silent and attentive,
awaiting the verdict of fate. At last the oracle is pronounced.
(C
Your cow," the lama says, "has not been eaten. I t is still
alive, but runs the risk of an accident. If you start looking
for it at once, going down the river, you will find it, but
everything depends upon your cleverness."
The vagueness of the last two sentences affords a wide
margin for different interpretations. A prophet should never
be too precise. The day is not far off when we are t o have
an amusing proof of this.
Somewhat reassured, the peasant describes his dwelling
minutely. We shall find it, he says, on the river bank. W e
start off upstream, while he hastens in the opposite direction.
*bout half an hour later we see the house indicated.
A painter would have found a charming subject for a landscape in this Thibetan farm, resting against a high background of greyish rocks, in the midst of a wood of golden
leaves. In front of it flowed the low, wintry waters of the
Salween, translucid and peaceful, scalloped with ice. I n all
probability, no white traveller had yet seen it in this part of

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
its course, winding between barefaced gigantic cliffs whose
sharp crests point high toward the open sky.
I would gladly have rested there upon the sun-baked stones,
t o savour the beauty of the surroundings, the joy of the passing
hour and the intoxication of adventure which had led me
hither. B u t it was not the time t o indulge in revery. The
personality of a decrepit beggar, which I had assumed, does
not go well with poetic fancy.
Attracted b y m y companion's shouts, some women show
themselves on the flat roof of clay. They listen rather distrustfully t o the account of our meeting with the master of the
house, and how he was led t o offer us hospitality. However,
after lengthy explanations they allow themselves t o be convinced. W e are led first of all into the yard, and after a fresh
examination of our faces and some more questions we are permitted to climb the ladder leading to the roof-terrace on which
the family apartment is situated, the ground floor being
occupied by stables.
A ragged cushion is brought for Yongden, the lama. As for
me, the old and unimportant mother, I simply seat myself on
the ground. W e have t o tell the women around us the names
of all the holy places we have visited or are about to visit
(for the most part, of course, wholly imaginary) and assure
them that we have no merchandise to sell, not ~ossessingSO
much as a blanket (which is on this occasion nothing but the
truth).
T h e weather is fine but cold, and, being seated motionless
in the open air, I begin t o shiver. As for our hostesses, they
d o not appear t o feel the touch of the cold north wind which
has arisen. I n order to work the more easily, they draw their
right arms out of the sheepskin coat, their only garment,
which is held to the waist by a girdle, displaying dirty
breasts which n o ablutions have ever touched!
After having been there for about two hours, something happens. T h e master of the house reappears, driving the recovered cow in front of him. There is general excitement.
"Oh, Lama," exclaims the peasant as soon as he has joined

98

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
All
us on the terrace, "you are a true, a great Zonrhes chen!
your words, without exception, have come true. T h e cow
was found in a very dangerous position. She was stuck fast
in a narrow path cut b y a landslide. She could neither go on,
It was
nor turn back, nor climb up t o the top of the cliff.
all I could do to get her out. Just as you said.
Yes, YOU
are undoubtedly a learned Zonshes lama!"
We enjoy this unexpected triumph. A good meal will robably follow t o feast the recovery of the lost cow and pay honour to the seer who has brought about this happy result. I n
the meantime a woman brings some tea, that buttered and
salted Thibetan tea, a soup, maybe, rather than a beverage,
but so truly refreshing t o the tired and benumbed traveller!
A bag of tramp0 is put down beside us, and we can dip into
it at will. I eat as much as I can.
Our host remains thoughtful. H e asks Yongden: "Lama,
can you read?"
II
Certainly," answers the latter, proudly, "I can read, and
write, too."
"Oh! Oh! You are indeed learned. Perhaps you are a
g a i ~ h e ~I. ~thought you might be."
He rises, goes into the combined oratory and storeroom-the
usual arrangement in Thibetan farmhouses-and brings out a n
enormous volume which he places with deep respect upon a
low table in front of my companion.
"Lama," he says, "look a t this book. It is a book t h a t
brings the most wonderful blessings and all sorts of prosperity
to those for whom it is read. You shall read it for my benefit."
Yongden turns his head toward me with a disturbed glance.
What have we fallen upon now? T h e task to be imposed
UPOn him offers no attractions. H e is tired and in great need
of rest and sleep. Nevertheless, he must answer the old fellow,
whose eyes are fixed beseechingly upon him.
"It is a big volume," he says. "The reading of i t would

...

'I NSnshes chen : a

great seer.

A doctor of philosophy and literature.

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
require several days, and I must leave to-morrow. But I can
open it.l T h e blessing will be quite as efficacious."
As this is a current practice in Thibet, nobody makes any
objection. T h e book is opened ceremoniously, incense burned,
a fresh supply of hot tea poured into our bowls, and Yongden
begins t o read in a very loud voice, after having ordered me
imperatively: "Mother, recite Dolma!"
I obediently intone a psalmody bearing n o relation to the
words read b y m y adopted son, the aim of which is merely to
keep me occupied so that the women cannot worry me with
their questions. It is by injunctions of this kind that the young
man habitually spares me the fatiguing experience of long useless conversations, in the course of which either my pronunciation, or the literary turn of m y speech might excite the wonder
of the villagers.
At the sound of the noise we are making, some neighbours
appear and wag their heads comprehendingly and approvingly.
I must have repeated Dolma a t least twenty times, and the
Kynpdo about five hundred times. T h e sense of the words
I am repeating arrests my thoughts.
4
I n order that you may awaken t o the supreme deliverance,
free from fear and grief, turn your steps toward Knowledge!"
1 ponder, and my pious murmurs cease. T h e lama notices
this, turns his head toward me, and thunders out the words:
6
Just as, in the sky, the clouds form and melt away, without
our knowing whence they come or whither they go, and without
there being anywhere a dwelling-place for the clouds, SO do
phenomena appear through a combination of causes and
vanish through the operation of other causes, without our
being able to assign any of them a place where it may dwell.
.

-

(

(

' Literally, "open its mouth," which means to remove the cloth in
which the book is wrapped and read the first pages of it, or the firat
line of each page.
' A hymn o f praise to the goddess Dijlma known in Sanskrit literature
as Tara.
' Kyapdo: "prostration," because that recitation is often accompanied
by repeated prostrations.

MY JOURNEY T O L H A S A

...

Fleeting in their essence, impermanent, are all these components of elements.''
It is by the reading of such treatises as these, although, be
it understood, they d o not comprehend a single word of themthat the country folk of Thibet expect their cattle to multiply,
their sick to be cured, and their commercial enterprises t o
succeed. Strange people and strange country !
I start, aroused from m y revery b y the martial tone with
which the reader has pronounced the declarations of the Sacred
Writings, and I resume my chanting with, "Aum mani padme
hum!" M y ears are tingling. I feel exhausted. If only I
might sleep !
Night approaches. We have been reciting this sort of office
for several hours. The head of the family reappears, bringing
a plate of barley and a bowl of clear water, which he puts
down near the book.
Lama," he begins, "it is not light enough to read any more.
I beg you to bless my house and m y goods so that they may
prosper, and to give us all holy water that we may be preserved
from sickness."
He is really tenacious, this worthy farmer! T h e recovery
of the cow must have inspired him with a blind confidence in
the magic power of Yongden. Now, faith in a lama is always
shown in Thibet by the donation of gifts, and the latter vary
in value according to the extent of this faith. T h e old farmer
is well off; that is to be seen by the number of cattle he has
just had brought in from his pastures. Undoubtedly we shall
be liberally provided with food for our journey, and a few
coins will be added to the present.
I see by the expression on my companion's face that he enters
into the spirit of the joke and is slyly rejoicing over the windfall which awaits us.
Behold him, grave as an archbishop, patrolling the different
'Wms of the dwelling, reciting words of benison from the
liturgy- Sometimes he pauses for a moment, and I know that
during the brief silence he is breathing an earnest wish for
the material and spiritual welfare of our hosts, for if he smiles
((

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
a t the childish credulity of his unlettered compatriots, Yongden
is profoundly religious and a member of a mystic sect in his
country. When the tour of the house is finished, the peasant
points the way to the stables. They extend far and are never
cleaned out, and this prolonged circuit in the sticky mud at
last proves irritating to the officiating priest. The adventure
has ceased t o be amusing. H e throws the grain broadcast upon
the heads of sheep and goats that are startled, horses that
prance, and cows that remain stolidly indifferent as if disdainful of all religious rites. Then, believing he has finished, he
approaches the ladder and mounts a step or two. But the
proprietor, who has accompanied him as incense bearer, hurries
up behind him, seizes him b y one ankle, and points out that
the pigs have not had their share of blessing. H e has to go
down again. T h e unfortunate lama finishes as soon as he
possibly can with the foul-smelling animals, which utter weird
sounds as he angrily throws forth a hail of barley a t them.
With muddy shoes and cold wet feet he a t last attains the roof.
Now it is the turn of the human beings! T h e water in the
bowl is blessed according to the orthodox rite. Then the
family, headed by the father, advances in line t o receive a few
drops in their hollowed palms. T h e water is swallowed, and
the moisture left in the hand is used t o wet the head. The
neighbours join in this procession.
When the devotions are a t an end the evening
- meal is served.
I t is a soup of dried nettles without any meat. We are far
from obtaining the feast we had anticipated, and it augurs
badly for the present that will be offered on our departure.
One may well fear that it will be n o more substantial than
the soup. Nevertheless, one never knows. Thibetan peasants
have strange ideas. My concern about the alms we will or will
not receive amuses me. I have developed the true beggar's
mentality since I began t o play the part of a poverty-stricken
wanderer! But our begging is not, after all, wholly a sport.
It has a serious side, for the offerings which fill our wallets
relieve us of the necessity of buying food and showing that we
possess money, and therefore help to preserve our incognito.

M Y JOURNEY T O LHASA
Finally, we are allowed to go t o sleep. In the room which
we are now permitted t o enter there is a scrap of tattered sacking upon the earthen floor. I t is about as large as a towel,
and this is the bed destined for me! Yongden, b y virtue of
his clerical dignity, is treated somewhat better. H e will have
the use of a ragged carpet which will preserve him, as far
as his knees, from contact with the bare earth. As to the
legs, they d o not matter. T h e lower classes in Thibet always
sleep doubled up, like dogs, almost in the form of a ball, and
they never possess carpets or cushions as long as their own
bodies. T o sleep with the body fully extended is regarded as
a luxury pertaining to "the Quality" alone.
I lay down after having merely unfastened the girdle of m y
thick robe. I n Thibet the poor do not undress when they go
to bed, especially when they are guests in a strange house in
the course of a journey. Shortly afterwards my son joined
me, and with as little toilet preparations as myself he stretched
himself upon his bit of carpet. We were both asleep when a
noise and a bright light awakened us.
But are we really awake? T h e picturesque spectacle which
we perceive between our half-closed eyelids almost makes US
doubt it. The room we are in is that in which the two daughters of the house and the maidservant sleep. They have all
three just come in, and, t o light themselves (lamps and candles
are unknown in this part of the country), they have thrown
shavings of resinous wood into the brazier in the middle of the
floor- I see them unfasten their girdles, shake their blackened arms out of their sleeves, drag hither and thither the
greasy and matted sheepskins which are to serve them for bed
and blankets. They move about, chattering, their silver necklaces tinkling upon their bare breasts. T h e flames which first
gleam and dance and then darken t o mere glowing embers,
surround them with a weird light. They look like three young
witches preparing for their Sabbath.
Before the day has dawned I nudge Yongden quietly t o
him. We must complete our toilet before the light
permits the others to notice too many details about us. For

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
me, this consists first in darkening my face with the black I
procure by rubbing the bottom of our only saucepan with my
hand. This precaution prevents my too fair skin from astonishing the natives. Then, beneath our robes we must arrange
the belts containing our gold and silver, our maps, thermometer, miniature compasses, watches, and other objects which
must on n o account be perceived.
W e have scarcely finished when the mistress appears. She
calls her daughters and the servant; the fire is rekindled, the
saucepan containing the remains of last night's soup placed on
the brazier, and a few moments later we are invited to hold
out our bowls for its distribution. T h e bowls were not washed
last night; it is not the custom amongst Thibetan villagers.
Each one possesses a special bowl which he never lends. He
licks it carefully after every meal and that is the cleansing
process. Poor me! I lack practice in the art of licking my
bowl; it is still smeared over with a layer of soup and i f tea
which has frozen during the night. But protesting nerves
must be subdued and the rising gorge swallowed, for the success of my journey depends upon it. Let us shut our eyes
and drink off our soup though it is even more nauseating
than last night's, because of the water added to make it go
further.
Our packages are soon tied up. No present is forthcoming,
and I regard with a look of amusement the discomfited countenance of my lama who has poured forth so many blessings,
chants, and official ministrations of all kinds. It is useless to
delay any longer. T h e whole family comes for one more blessing by the imposition of hands, and I can guess that Yongden
would willingly administer a sound cuffing to the old miser
upon whose shock of hair he lays his hands.
W e go down the ladder again, pass in front of the horses
which eye us curiously, the goats whose odd and diabolical gaze
seems t o jeer a t the crestfallen lama, and the ever laci id COWS.
Once outside, we walk for a while in silence. Then, out of
sight and earshot, Yongden turns suddenly and, having made

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
some cabalistic signs in the direction of our host, he bursts
forth :
"Oh, you rogue, you base deceiver, in whose service I toiled
a whole day long!
Telling me to go down the ladder
again to bless his pigs, forsooth! I take back all my blessings,
unworthy old miser! M a y the wool never grow on your
sheep's back, your cattle prove barren, and your fruit trees
be blighted !"
His comical indignation, which was only half feigned, amused
me very much. For, after all, m y companion was a real lama,
and he had been cheated of dues that were justly his. B u t he
himself could not long withstand the funny side of the adventure, and we both burst out laughing in the face of the wintry
Salween, which seemed t o be singing as it wended its way over
its pebbly bed: "That's the way things are done in the fine
country of Thibet, my adventurous little strangers; you will
see many more such!"
T h a t very day, after having again crossed a pass, we reached
the vicinity of the dreaded Ubes. W e delayed our walk through
the village until dusk, and then, leaving behind a group of
houses in one of which we supposed that the Big h l a n was
sleeping, we allowed ourselves a short rest in a narrow crevice
of the hill, the dry bed of a summer stream.
At dawn the first rays of light revealed a decorated building
which was doubtlessly the present abode of the official. AS
it was still early, we were lucky enough to meet n o one in t h e
vicinity,
We made great haste, and when the sun rose we had already
Put about two miles between us and the dangerous spot- We
joyfully congratulated each other on our escape.
In the middle of the afternoon, while we were still in this
gay mood, we were told that the p6npo had moved three days
ago from Ubes t o another village situated farther on.
We tramped on again a t night till we had passed the place.
Perfectly convinced, this time, that our troubles were over,
We slept happily in a chaos of rocks and thorns. T h e following morning, after ten minutes' walk, we reached a large

...

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
house sheltered in a recess of the mountain. About thirty
good horses were tethered outside. Country people were
already crowding in, bringing grain, grass, butter, meat, and
s o forth.
This was the place where the official had actually put up!
A stalwart head servant supervised the entrance of the things
brought by the villagers. H e stopped Yongden, and after a
talk which appeared to me endless, he ordered a man to give
us a meal of tea and tsampa. W e could not refuse this kind
offer. Beggars like us could but rejoice a t this piece of good
luck. W e made a pretense of it, seated on the steps of the
kitchen, smiling, laughing, and joking with the attendants of
the gentleman, but all the while we felt rather inclined to take
to our heels!
T h e thing which proved most tiresome, and even a t times
became excessively difficult in the life I was now leading, was
the part that I was always obliged to play in order t o preserve
m y incognito. I n a country where everything is done in
public, down t o the most intimate personal acts, I was forced
to affect peculiar local customs which embarrassed me terribly.
Happily, our way lay a t times through large tracts of uninhabited land, and the greater freedom which I enjoyed there
somewhat relieved m y painful nervous tension. There, especially, I was able to avoid the indescribable soups which the
kindly but poverty-stricken fellows, our hosts, bestowed upon
us, and which we had t o swallow down with a smile, for fear
of suspicious comments. Once only did I depart from my
accustomed attitude of the beggar t o whom everything tastes
good, but that day!
W e have arrived toward nightfall in a little village. It was
very cold and the stark surroundings afforded n o shelter. We
had already been refused hospitality a t several houses, when
rickety door of an
a woman opened her door to us-the
exceedingly miserable dwelling. We entered; a fire burned on
the hearth: and in this frosty weather this in itself afforded
comfort. T h e husband of the woman came back shortly afterwards, bringing out some handfuls of tsampa from the bottom

...

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
of a beggar's wallet, and we realised that n o supper could be

from people who had nothing t o eat themselves.
After a few words of praise for the generosity of an imaginary
chief who has given him a rupee, Yongden declares that he
will buy some meat, if there is any t o be had in the village.
"I know of a good place," said our host a t once, scenting
a windfall. From the corner where I was crouching, I insisted
that it should be of good quality. Most Thibetans eat without
any repugnance the ~utrefiedflesh of animals which have died
of disease.
"Do not bring back the flesh of an animal which has died,
nor a piece which is decayed," I said.
'(No, no," said the man. "I know what I am about. You
shall have something good."
About ten minutes passed. T h e village is not large, and
the peasant soon returned.
"There," he said, triumphantly, drawing a large parcel of
some kind from beneath his sheepskin robe.
T h e room is lighted only by the
What can this be?
embers of the fire, and I cannot clearly distinguish anything.
The man seems to be opening something, probably a
cloth which he has wrapped round his purchase.
Ugh!
A most fearsome d o u r suddenly fills the room,
the smell of a charnel-house. It is sickening.
"Oh," says Yongden, in a voice that trembles slightly, concealing the nausea that he is obliged t o repress. "Oh, it is a
stomach !"
1 understand now. T h e Thibetans, when they kill a beast,
have a horrible habit of enclosing in the stomach, the kidneys,
heart, liver, and entrails of the animal. They then sew up this
kind of bag, and its contents go on decaying inside for days,
weeks, and even longer.
Yes, it is a stomach," repeats its purchaser, whose voice also
trembles somewhat, but with joy, seeing the mass of foodstuff
falling out of the now opened bag. "It is full," he exclaims,
"quite full ! Oh, what a lot !"
He has placed the horror on the floor, is plunging his hands

...

..

...

((

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
into it, taking out the gelatinous entrails. Three children who
were asleep on a heap of tatters have awakened, and are
now squatting in front of their father, watching him eagerly
with covetous eyes.
"Yes
yes, a stomach!" repeats Yongden, in consternation.
"Here, mother, here is a saucepan," says the woman, kindly,
addressing me: "You can prepare your supper."
What! Am I t o handle this filth? I whisper hastily to my
son, "Tell them that I a m ill."
"It always seems your turn t o be ill when something unpleasant befalls us," Yongden growls, under his breath. But the boy
is resourceful; he has already regained his self-possession,
"The old mother is ill," he announces. "Why do you not
make the tupa [thick soup] yourselves? I want everybody to
have a share."
T h e two peasants d o not wait t o be invited a second time,
and the youngsters, realizing that a feast is in course of preparation, stay quietly by the fire, having n o desire to go to sleep
again. T h e mother takes up a chopper and a rustic choppingblock made out of a log, on which she cuts the carrion into
small pieces. From time t o time one of these drops upon the
floor, and then the children fall upon it like young puppies and
devour it raw.
Now this foul soup is boiling, and a little barley meal is
added. Finally the supper is ready.
"Take some, mother; it will d o you good," say the husband
and wife. I confine myself t o groaning, in the corner where I
have stretched myself.
"Let her sleep," says Yongden.
H e cannot himself be excused. Arjopas who spend a rupee
on meat and d o not touch it d o not exist. To-morrow the
whole village would be talking about it. H e has to swallow
down a full bowl of the evil-smelling liquid, but beyond that
he cannot go, and he declares that he, too, is not feeling very
well. I d o not wonder a t it. T h e others feast long and
gluttonously upon the broth, smacking their lips in silence,

...

108

M Y JOURNEY T O LHASA
overcome with joy a t this unexpected bonne bouch, and I am
overtakenby sleep whilst the family is still masticating noisily.
We travelled across more hills and more valleys; we passed
by more gompns. W e sat with more peasants, and met two
pir~pmon the road, one of whom bestowed on us most useful
presents of food. Thus we progressed in the direction of the
Sepo Khang la.
At the foot of the pass one of those mysterious and inexplicable incidents was to befall us, such as sometimes bewilder
the traveller in Thibet. A long tramp had brought us to a
gorge in which a clear stream flowed toward the invisible
Salween, which we were again approaching for the last time.
It was scarcely noon, and we felt reluctant to waste a whole
afternoon in a village house when we could still have gone on
for several hours. We had been informed that it was impossible
to cross the range in one day, even if we started before dawn,
so that we were bound in any case to spend the night on the
hills. We therefore thought it wiser t o continue on our way, and
if the cold prevented us from camping, we could walk on
through the night, as we had often done. But before starting
on this long tramp I wished t o eat a good meal. Water was
now at our feet, and we could not guess when we should
again run across a stream. Yongden gladly agreed to make a
halt, and as soon as we had reached the bank we put our loads
on the shingle, and my companion began to light a fire with
the few twigs that I had gathered under some trees which
Pew at the end of the fields.
A little boy whom I had noticed on the other side of the
river then crossed the bridge and ran toward Yongden. H e
bowed down three times before him as Thibetans d o in their
greetings to great lamas. We were most astonished. What
have made that child give such a deep token of reverence
'O a mere beggar pilgrim.
Without giving us time t o put any
question,the boy addressed Yongden.
MY grandfather, who is very ill," he said, "has told us all,
this mornink that a lama coming down that hill, was t o make
L(

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
tea in the d r y part of the river bed and that he wanted to see
him. Since the sun has risen m y brother and I have watched
in turn a t the bridge to invite the lama to our house. Now
that you have come, please follow me."
"It is not my son whom your grandfather expects," I told
the boy. "We are people from a far-off country. He does
not know us."
"He said the lama who would make tea on the stones," insisted the child; and as we did not comply with his request he
crossed the river again and disappeared between the fences of
the fields.
W e had just begun to drink our tea when the boy reappeared,
accompanied b y a young trapa.
"Lama," the latter said to Yongden, "be kind enough to
come t o see my father. H e is very ill and says that he is
about t o die. H e only waits for a lama who will arrive to-day
and who is the one and only person who can direct him to a
happy place of rebirth in the next world. H e told us all this
morning that you would come down that hill and make tea,
here on the stones, near the river. All has happened as he
said. Now please be kind t o us and come."
Neither Yongden nor I knew what t o think about this queer
affair. W e persisted in believing that the sufferer meant some
lama whom he knew and had some reason t o expect on this
road. Nevertheless, seeing the trapa weeping, I advised my
companion t o pay a visit t o the sick villager. So he promised
t o go as soon as we had finished our meal.
T h e boy and the young trapa-his
uncle, I understoodwent t o report our answer t o the farmer. But presently I saw
another boy seated near the bridge observing us. These people
were certainly afraid that Yongden would fail t o keep his
promise, and therefore kept him in sight. No escape was
possible, and why indeed should Yongden have disappointed
an old invalid? T h e latter would evidently see that my son
was not the one he expected, and all would end with no more
than ten minutes' delay.

M Y J O U R N E Y TO L H A S A
All the family had assembled a t the door of the farm. T h e y
greeted Yongden with the greatest respect. M y companion
was then led into the room, and while he went toward the
cushions on which the farmer lay I remained near the threshold
with the women of the house.
The old man did not really appear as one who is near
death. His voice was firm and his intelligent eyes showed that
his mental faculties were in n o way dimmed. He wished to rise
and bow down t o my son, but the latter re vented him from
moving out of his blankets, saying that sick people need only
mean the respectful salute.
"Lama,)' the farmer said, "I have been longing for your
coming, but I knew that you were t o come and I waited for
you, to die. You are my true trawai lama; n o one but you
alone can lead me to the 'Land of Bliss.' Have compassion
on me, bless me, d o not refuse me your help."
What the old man wished was for Yongden t o utter for his
benefit the mystic words called Powa which are pronounced
at the deathbed of a lay Iamaist or of any monk who is not a n
initiate, when the latter is quite beyond all hope of recovery.
AS I have said, the old Thibetan did not seem to be near t o
death, and for religious reasons whose explanations would be
out of place here, my companion hesitated to yield to his
wishes. He tried in vain to hearten the sick man, assuring
him that he would not die, and offering t o recite the spells
which "mend" life and give it new strength. This the farmer,
however, obstinately refused, maintaining that he knew his
hour to be a t hand and had only awaited the spiritual aid of
his lama to take his departure.
He then began t o weep and order those present to entreat
the lama on his behalf. T h e family did so, sobbing and weeping, with repeated prostrations, until, overpowered, Yongden
finally gave in. Then, deep moved he recited the ritual words
'

1

Either the head lama of the sect to which one belongs, or the head
lama of the rnonatery of which one is either r benefactor, a monk, or a
Rut in this case it means a spiritual father and guide with whom
One h a been connected in that way for several lives.

111

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
which loosen the ties of the "namshks," l and lead them safely
through the labyrinthine paths of the other worlds.
When we left him the old farmer's face expressed a perfect
serenity, a complete detachment from all earthly concerns, having, it seemed, entered the true Blissful Paradise which, being
nowhere and everywhere, lies in the mind of each one of us.

I shall not venture to offer any explanation of this peculiar
incident. I have related the fact thinking that it might interest
those who pursue psychic researches, but I would feel exceedingly sorry if my account provoked commentaries disrespectful
t o the memory of the departed Thibetan. Death and the dying
are never to be made a subject of raillery.
Those who had told us that the road across the Sepo Khang
hills was a long one, were certainly right. We walked on from
the dawn, meeting nobody and mistaking our way on several
occasions a t the intersection of trails leading to dokpasJ summer camps. A t dusk we were still far from the pass. A
blizzard then rose, as we climbed a steep and waterless slope.
There was no camping-place in the vicinity, and we had almost
decided to retrace our steps and shelter ourselves much lower
down a t a place where we had seen some empty huts, when
we heard the tinkling of horses' bells and three men appeared
on the way u p like ourselves. They were traders, and told
us that a little farther along on the road there was a farm
wherein we could get shelter.
It was pitch dark when we arrived. I understood from
the large stables, that the place was a kind of inn for the
use of travellers crossing the pass a t a season when camping
in the open is rather dangerous. We were admitted to the
kitchen with the merchants who fed us with soup, tea, tsampa
and dried fruits. These men belonged to a village in the
same neighbourhood as the sick farmer. Passing there in
the morning, they had heard all about Yongden, and brought

' Namzhis: consciousness, which is multiple. Not in any case to be tramlated by ~ o u l .
112

M Y JOUR-NEY T O L H A S A
us the sad news that a t dawn, when we ourselves had left
the village, the old man had smiled and died. T h e traders
had been deeply impressed by the account of their friend's last
hours. The thoughts of all being turned toward religion, they
begged Yongden to preach them a sermon, which he did.
The kitchen, the only living room of the farm, was very
small, and with the blazing fire that burned quite near us,
we were half roasted. Then, when the time came to sleep,
we understood that the owner and his wife wished t o remain
alone. The traders went down the ladder t o the stable, where
they slept near their beasts. As for us, we were told to accommodate ourselves on the flat roof. What a change from that
ovenlike kitchen to the cold air of a frosty night, with a blizzard raging, a t fifteen or sixteen thousand feet above sea level!
It was not the first time that I had experienced this kind of
hospitality. More than once villagers had invited us, treated
us to a good supper, and then sent us on the roof or into the
courtyard. Nobody apparently thought much of it in Thibet!
But that night I lacked the courage to lie down in the open
air, and I begged permission (which was granted) to sleep next
the kitchen in a shelter shut in on three sides.
The next day we crossed the pass and descended t o the
Sepo monastery, beautifully situated in a lonely spot with an
extended view in front of it, T h e traders were on horseback,
and had reached the gompa long before us. They had stayed
there for a while and had told the lamas about Yongden, so
that when he arrived, meaning t o purchase some food, he
cordially welcomed and invited t o remain a few days t o
discuss matters concerning the Buddhist doctrine with some of
the monastery's learned inmates. As for myself, I could also
get lodging in a guest house. But as I had not accompanied
adopted son to the monastery, and had continued my way,
I was already out of sight amongst the hills, so Yongden declined the kind invitation. I regretted it afterwards; but as
rde of a lay woman would very likely have kept me
away from the place where the literati of the monastery would
113

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
hold their meetings with Yongden, I consoled myself with no
great difficulty.
A little later in the evening, we met a woman going to the
gompa who told us that we could find a shelter in a pardy
ruined house that was easily seen from the road. The country
was once more a complete desert, and we could not hope
to reach the lower valley on the same day. It proved more
and more true that the crossing of the Sepo Khang la was a
long one. W e walked about an hour longer without discovering the house, but a t last reached it when i t was nearly dark.
I t had been a really large and well-built farm with a good
number of stables, sheds, storerooms, servants' quarters, and
a pretty apartment upstairs for the owners. Everything was
now in a dilapidated condition, but with a little work it would
have been quite possible t o make the necessary repairs, for no
essential parts of the building were ruined.
W e had nearly finished our meal when the woman who had
told us about that house arrived with a young boy, her son.
She was the owner of the farm and had left it, though there
were good fields around it, after a terrible drama.
A few years before, a gang of robbers from the P o country
had attacked this isolated farm and there had been a terrific
struggle. Four of the masters, the woman's husband, her two
brothers, another relative, and a few servants had been killed,
while others were wounded. The robbers also had left several
dead on the ground. Since then the unhappy housewife and
her family lived in the village near the monastery. The fear
that a similar outrage would happen again, naturally kept her
away from her farm, which gradually fell into ruins.
But another and still stronger fear re vented her from
returning to her former house. T h e farm was believed to be
haunted by evil spirits. T h e violent death of so many men
had attracted them, and, with the ghosts of the murderers
and their victims, they roamed about the buildings. For this
reason the woman had come back from the gompa to ask the
lama t o spend the night in her house, t o exorcise it.
She could have requested the services of the lamas of Sepo,
114

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
and most likely some of them had already performed the
required rites on her behalf; but, as I have already mentioned, "Red Cap" lamas are deemed more powerful exorcists
than their colleagues of the yellow sect. Moreover, Yongden,
for obvious reasons, had a real success as a lama "Holder of
the Secret Spells." Had he established himself somewhere,
clients would have flocked t o his residence. B u t he hated that
kind of trade; he had seen i t from too near.
Nevertheless, kindness compelled him to comply with the
wishes of the woman. ' H e told her that if she wished to cultivate her property again, she could d o so without fear of any
denizen of another world, but that serious precautions were t o
be taken against robbers.
The following day we arrived in the Dainshin province, and
here again, as along the Salween, I was the guest of many. I
never regretted my roundabout tour in that country. It is
out of the way of the great trade routes, and absolutely
unknown to foreigners. Yet it is a well-cultivated area. Large
and prosperous monasteries are seen in several places, the
villages seem to be well built, and the people are agreeable. I
saw some interesting soda fields from which Thibetans get the
stuff they mix with their tea when boiling it.
Once we passed a rich traveller on the road, carrying presents to a gompa. H e gave us two rupees each, without our
asking for money. W e were naturally most astonished a t this
unexpected windfall.
We did not always take our disguise as beggars very serisly. Once in the heart of Thibet, we preferred t o save time
by purchasing our supplies. Nevertheless, unsolicited alms
came our way several times. Never in my life have I made
SO economical a journey.
We used to laugh as we tramped
along the road, recalling all the stories we had read of travellers
who started out with many camels laden with heavy and expensive stores and luggage only to meet with failure more or less
near their ~ o a~-l .
I could have done the whole journey without any money in
0

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
my pocket, but as we were extravagant beggars, indulging in
molasses cakes, dried fruits, the best tea, and plenty of butter,
we succeeded in spending one hundred rupees in our four
months' journey from Yunnan t o Lhasa. One need not be
rolling in riches to travel in the blessed lands of Asia!

CHAPTER IV

I

HAD been told a t Tashi Tse: "To go to Po yul you can

choose between two roads. One follows the valley, the
other cuts through the hills. T h e first one crosses many villages and passes near several monasteries. Robbers are not
much to be feared on that side; a t the worst the traveller may
meet some petty thieves-three o r four men roaming together
at night, who do not generally kill those whom they attack. It
is also easy, on that road, t o get food either b y begging or by
purchasing it. T h e second is a mountain track, and, although
fairly good, it runs through a wilderness. Until the first villages
of the Po yul are reached, you will tramp in a desert probably without meeting a single soul. And this is the best that
can happen to you, for those you meet might be highwaymen
from the P o country, coming and going on some looting expedition. They would certainly not trouble about the contents
of your beggars' bags, but might possibly kill you, vexed t o
have been seen and anxious to avoid any further talk. YOU
will also have t o pass two very high passes, and a large tract
of land between. Snow has not yet fallen heavily this year.
You may succeed in crossing the range, but you must be
ready to face the worst, for snow might close the road of the
first pass, after your passage, so that, if you found the second
closed also, you would be caught in a trap. If you risk the
adventure, you must take a large supply of food with you.
You may possibly meet a few dokpar camped between the two
ranges, but they will neither give nor sell any food. They have
scarcely enough for themselves to last until next spring."
I did not give much time t o pondering over this news. T h e
valley road was marked on all the maps, but that does not
necessarily mean, where Thibet is concerned, that any for1

Yul means country.
117

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
eigner has followed it. I t often happens that the line marked
on the map by the map-maker is traced, not from his actual
knowledge, but according t o information received from natives,
and Thibetans are rather vague, if not quite fanciful, in
describing the roads and the country which they cross. Anyhow the rong lam in question was, I could well believe,
rather well known b y the Chinese. T h e other one, on the
contrary, was unexplored; maps ignored it completely, as well
as the passes which it crossed. These passes were, no doubt,
those a t the foot of which sprang the river Po, referred to by
the English general who, strange as it might appear, had a
good deal of responsibility in the choice of my present itinerary.
His name was Sir George Pereira. W e often spoke of him,
Yongden and I, and we meant to relate to him our prowess on
our return. We were far from thinking that he would die on
a road of the Chinese F a r East, about the time we entered
that Po yul which we had looked a t together on the map.
General Pereira had arrived a t Jakyendo when I had just
returned there after a tour in that part of Kham that extends
from the grassy desert t o the southern trade road-the one
going from Chiamdo to Lhasa. T h a t trip, during which I had
gathered most interesting information, ended suddenly, as I
have related. I was stopped and prevented from ~roceeding
southwards toward the Salween. N o doubt the general had
learned this from the servants or c .her people, but, as I did
not take him into my confidence as t o my unpleasant adventure, he never alluded t o it in our talks.
He spent a fortnight in an apartment situated opposite to
mine in the same courtyard, and we often met to take tea or
to visit some place of interest. H e was a well-bred, elderly
gentleman, a charming scholar, a geographer, and a tireless
globe-trotter. H e was suspected a t Jakyendo of being charged
with a secret mission by his government. Many things were
rumoured of which I cannot say whether they were true or
not. It was a matter of indifference to me.
General Pereira was on his way to Lhasa by the northern

'

ValJey road.

118

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
trade route, and he openly spoke of it.' Although a Danish
traveller had been stopped but a few weeks before on that very
same road, the general was certain that orders had been sent
to the Thibetans to receive him with due regard, and thus i t
turned out.
He carried with him a quantity of maps, and himself surveyed the country through which he went, working strenuously
a part of the night to put his notes in order, and taking but
little interest in the picturesque aspect of the customs, feasts,
and the like of the country.
Very kindly he put his maps and some of his notes a t my
disposal. I copied from them a number of useful points for
the future journey I had already planned. Some of these
rough map sketches have accompanied me to Lhasa, hidden in
my boots, and, thanks to them, I have been able t o verify on
my way how incomplete the geographical knowledge of that
part of the world still is.
One afternoon, after having had tea together, we were speaking about Thibet. A map remained open on a table, and with
the tip of his finger Sir George Pereira followed the thin line
marking the supposed course of the Po.
"Nobody has ever been there," he said. "There may be several accessible passes above the spring of the river.
It
would be an interesting way to Lhasa."
Did he speak on purpose t o give me a hint, or had his words
no special meaning? I never knew.
More than once I had considered the idea of crossing the
Po country. I t was an old idea of mine, for I had discussed
it with Yongden three years before, in the Kum Bum Monastery, but the vague facts I had gathered about P o Y U ~from
traders of central Thibet o r the ~ e o p l eof Kham had been
rather discouraging. Many maintained that the Popas were
cannibals. Others, more moderate in their opinions, left this

...

1

Since then I have learned that the general's itinerary was
different from that which he declared he would follow when
Jakyendo. He proceeded by the soutl~ern road which crosses
habited country. The Thibetan government supplicd him with
ances all the way.

entirely
leaving
an inconvey-

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
question unsettled. But all united in affirming that anyone
foreign t o the P o tribes, who entered their country, was never
seen again.
So I hesitated a little before risking this adventure, when
the words of the general decided me-"Nobody
has ever been
"
there.
All right. I would see these ranges and these
passes! Truly it would be "an interesting road t o Lhasa"!
Hearty thanks t o you, sir, who on purpose or by chance did
me a real service.
I was now a t the foot of the hills about which I had dreamed
for years. Hesitation was impossible.
Tashi Tse, where I chose the road which was t o lead to so
many adventures, is an important village situated in a wide
valley near a zong built on an isolated hillock.
Tashi Tse means the prosperous summit, or the summit of
prosperity. Both translations can be justified on the score
of grammar. Since the bottom of the valley does not in the
least correspond t o one's geographical notion of a summit, one
is compelled t o look t o the other translation, which, alas!
appears as inexact as the first one. T h e poor countryfolk of
the region are, I have heard, far from having reached the height
of prosperity.
Taxes, statute labour, and a number of other ways of plundering them, which the villagers lament, fill the strong box of
the ponpo perched on his hillock, and it is very likely that it
is to his paltry citadel we must look to find the "prosperous
summit."
I reached the place rather early in the afternoon and had
time to go round a-begging, the purpose of which was to
deceive the official or his men if they h a p p e n e d t o hear about
my presence. T h e poor peasants, t o whom my apparent poverty and my beggarly attire gave confidence, described their
distress in that country where the soil does not ~ r o d u c eevery
year enough grain t o pay the tax in kind.
T o leave the country, to look for better land or less exacting
lords, is not permitted. A few ventured the flight and estab-

...

' Zong: a fort, but nowadays any dwelling seat of
120

an official.

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
lished themselves in neighbouring provinces. Having been
discovered, they were taken away from the new home they had
created and led back to Tashi Tse, where they were beaten and
heavily fined.
Now many who had thought to imitate them, too frightened by the fate of their friends, remain resigned, all energy
destroyed, growing poorer each year, expecting no deliverance
in this life. Others looked toward China. "We were not illtreated in this way when the Chinese were the masters," they
but when? W e
said. "Will they come back? Maybe
9,
may die before
And so, in the evenings, around small fires in their miserable
huts, these women, whose tears have reddened their eyes, gaze
before them in the dark, picturing the range after range of hills
between them and the land where the Lhasa troops have driven
away their old suzerains.
The distance which separates their country from that certainly not perfect, but more hospitable, land, is not great, b u t
how is it possible to travel quickly without being detected,
if one must take the grandmother who walks so slowly, the
little ones so soon tired, and the infants who must be carried?
And then, what of the ass and of the only cow, whose loss
would mean utter ruin for those who would already be corn?
pelled to leave so many things behind
How sorrowful was this "prosperous summit"!
I spent the night in a house where thoughts such as I have
mentioned haunted the minds of my hosts. T h e husband and
his wife were rather ill-assorted as to their age, and my foolish
Companion repented bitterly for days having mistaken the
rather young man for the son of the housewife, whereas he
Was her husband. The grandmother knew that, once she were
dead, the couple would try t o escape with the children from
their jail. The poor old thing, in other circumstances, would
certainly have liked t o live longer, but now she wished t o die,
SO that her children might be free to start toward happiness,
Or at least a lesser misery.
She wished to die, but she, too,
dreamed of happiness, and as she was not to know the earthly

...

...

... .

M Y J O U R N E Y TO LHASA
one which perhaps awaited her family, she begged the lama
a t night, when the others had retired to sleep, to perform the
rite which would bring her a happy rebirth in Nub dewo then,
the Western Paradise. Her daughter was a kind-hearted
woman. She did not, of course, desire the end of the tottering,
white-haired grandmother, nor did the good young husband.
Yet, with the increasing poverty and the taxes
and
and
! I could have wept.
How heart-rending was the sorrow of these humble folk!
I t is on such occasions that one would like to be a God and
to have a t one's command an inexhaustible treasure of welfare
and happiness to pour out t o all alike: intelligent and simpleminded ones, so-called good and so-called bad ones, so that
all should smile and rejoice! W h y could I not flood with
true felicity that melancholic Tashi Tse, "the prosperous
summit."
I started a little before daybreak, missed the road in the
darkness, and did not cross the river as I ought to have done.
When I became aware of it the bridge was far behind. TO
retrace my steps might have attracted the notice of some
servants of the zong. I did not like t o risk it, and so one way
only remained-to
cross in the water. T h e stream flowed
rapidly; it was large and deep but clear. One could see the
bottom, and did not risk losing unexpectedly one's footing,
as happened to me in the upper course of the Mekong during
a previous journey. On the whole, the crossing had nothing
that could frighten Yongden or myself, who had many times,
on horseback or on foot, forded foaming torrents. But the
banks were widely scalloped with thick ice which told of the
temperature of the morning bath with which the deity of
Tashi T s e meant t o increase our comfort.
I went upstream looking for a ford, and reached a fork
of the river. T h e small branch was shallow, nearly frozen
over, but, for that very reason, the passage was still more
painful. I n several places the frozen sheet broke under me
and I fell amongst splinters of ice which cruelly cut my bare

...

122

...

...

M Y J O U R N E Y TO L H A S A
feet, Then followed the real bath, with dress lifted up and
the water just a little lower than my hips.
How welcome would have been a warm Turkish towel when
we reached the stony shore! Such luxury, of course, was quite
far out of reach. True I had in my bag a one-foot-square
towel, but I used it only when in hiding. Thibetans d o not
dry themselves after crossing a river, or, if they do, they use
a Rap of their wide robes. I tried t o imitate them, but as
soon as it became wet my thick dress of coarse wool stiffened
and froze.
We went along the river till noon; we then felt hungry and
deemed it wise to have a meal before leaving the valley, for
we could not guess if water would be found soon on the hills.
Previous experiences had taught us the torment of remaining
thirty-six hours without drinking. We preferred t o avoid risks
of that kind.
A torrent crossed our road. Once upon a time, in a dreadful rush, it had rent and carried down a mountain and covered
the plain, far away, with countless rocks and boulders. Now,
at its winter low-water level, it divided in several rivulets
which went winding among the obstacles accumulated in the
days of its strength.
1 hastily collected whatever dry twigs or cow dung I could
find among the stones, and Yongden lit a fire. Foreseeing
greater hardships than ever on the desert road of the high
Passes, we decided that day that a specially good meal was
required: first the soup, then the tea. As a rule we had only
one course, either soup or tea. T h e ordering of the menu was
mine. Thibetans begin with tea and end with soup.
The soup? Under what name could it appear on a bill of
fare? Would "potage Vatel" do? I disclose the receipt. From
a bag of the most orthodox local fashion-that
is t o say,
greasy and black with dirt-I take out a small piece of dry
bacon, the gift of a kind-hearted householder. My young
cuts it into a dozen tiny bits, which he throws in
'he Pot full of boiling water. Then a pinch of salt, and a
"Ah! if we had a radish or a turnip!" But we lack these

M Y J O U R N E Y TO LHAS.4
delicacies and the minute slices of bacon dance alone a lively

jig in the boiling broth, a turbid liquid the smell of which
reminds one of dishwater. Nevertheless, that scent is not unpleasant t o the needy vagrants which we have become. Pure
air and long tramps are the best appetizers, and we have eaten
nothing since the meagre soup, with turnips but without bacon,
that our host had given us the day before.
Now a few handfuls of flour beaten up in cold water are
thrown in the pot. A few minutes later we begin to eat.
"How particularly good is the soup to-day! Really delicious!"
But as, in spite of my long stay amongst Thibetans, I still keep
a vague remembrance of French cooking, I add, "My father's
dogs would never have eaten such a thing." I laugh and extend
my bowl to have it filled again.
Now it is the turn of the tea. I tear a small piece of the
hard compressed brick made as much of branches of wood as
of tea leaves. I t is crushed into the water; salt and butter are
added. I t is like a second soup, all the more because we
add trampa in our bowls. Now the lunch is ended and we
feel perfectly refreshed, capable of climbing as high as the sky.
W e look boldly t o the first range silhouetted against the horizon
and behind which we shall meet so many others.
W e have loaded our bags upon our backs and hold in our
hands our long pilgrim staffs. Let us go! I am entering a
virgin country and only a few natives have ever contemplated
the scenery yonder, which I shall see this very evening.
W e found a hamlet higher up, in an immense upper valley
that ascended slowly toward distant ranges, where it became
a desert covered only with grass and shrubs. At first we could
see trails followed by cattle-keepers in the summer, but soon
they disappeared under the grass or in the stony patches, and
we were left t o our own cleverness t o find our way.
Once we discovered, far away a t the foot of the hills, an
intermittent smoke. It might be dokpar encamped there for the
winter; or, as the smoke looked so white, perhaps it was the
vapour of some hot spring, as there are a good number of these
in Thibet. T o go t o that place would have taken several hours,

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
and I could not afford this. Although the weather was fine,
snow seemed to be expected before long by the people of the
country, and I was anxious to be quickly over the first high pass
at least. I therefore pushed on, going straight toward the
ridge I could see before me.
The slight slope over which we were ~ r o c e e d i nwas
~ not flat
ground, for hillocks, miniature ranges, and ravine springs cut
it here and there. W e plunged into one of the latter, and
found its bottom filled with the frozen water of a torrent whose
slippery surface made our progress difficult. When we emerged
we saw that the large valley turned aside. We had been told
to follow a river, but now we saw two-one very far down in a
gorge, and another which wound close to us amongst short
grass and moss. The information we had gathered mentioned
also a dokpar' camp, deserted in the winter, where we could
spend the night in shelter. I was very desirous t o reach it,
for at that height the night would be extremely cold. I decided to follow the more important of the two streams, which
very likely had its source farther away and probably in the
main ridge. Thus we continued to walk. T h e sun set and
a sharp cold wind arose.
W e had not found any dolzpas'
huts. We began t o think of stopping and making a fire in
some sheltered place, to spend the night there, for the higher
up we went the more severe would be the cold. As for water,
there was none save the river, far, far below us. But we could
easily do without evening tea after having had such a meal
as our last lunch. We were discussing the place where we
might stay, when I noticed a long distance before us, on the
otller bank of the river, a yellowish spot which could not be
autumnal foliage, because we were above the zone of the
'l'ees, and which, I felt, was neither a rock nor any natural
but a thing made by man-maybe
a thatched roof.
us,
and we walked
rather than real hope,
quickly forward instead of camping. Gradually the spot became bigger, but we still could not see clearly what it was.
A little later it appeared as thatch raised on beams. I t was
a roof, then, the dokpar' camp! When a t last we confronted

. ..

12s

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
i t across the stream, we realized that it was not a roof, but
merely straw that had been put high up on some crossed
beams t o prevent the wild beasts, antelopes, and others, feeding on it during the winter, when the camp was abandoned.
W e felt a little disappointed.
"No matter," I said t o Yongden. "It is worth while taking
the trouble to go down to the river and climb up the opposite
bank. W e will get a few bundles of that straw down, build
a kind of shelter with them and spread some as mattresses on
the frozen ground. T h a t will keep us warm. We will also
fill our pot with water when crossing the stream, and make
some g o d tea."
I t was a long way to the bottom of the gorge, and then up
again by a n exceedingly steep slope to the encampment. But
we reaped the full reward of our toil, for, t o our happy astonishment, we discovered on a small headland a real camp
with a number of roofed pens for the cattle, and in one df
them a separate place for the use of the men. I t had a
hearth, and dried cow dung lay in abundance all over the
camn. W e had reached a ~ a r a d i s e !
Most probably we were the only human beings on that hill,
but not forgetting the warning we had been given about robbers,
before we s l e ~ we
t set a kind of a tran between ourselves and
the entrance. A man entering the hut could not have taken
t
his feet in one or another of the
three steps w i t h o ~ ~catching
ropes, stretched invisibly near the ground, and on his falling
the noise would have awakened us. What mattered most was
to avoid being taken by surprise. Once awakened
Well,
we each had a revolver and that still better weapon, in the
East-and perhaps everywhere-the "winged words" of the divine Ulysses and the artifices of the goddess Juno. I relied more
on these latter for my safety than on anything else, and the day
was near when they would justify the confidence I placed in
them by giving me the victory over a gang of Popas brigands.
In spite of the cold wind which made me shiver, I remained
a long time outside, wandering through that summer resort of
the wilds, beautifully lighted by an enormous full mwn.
I

L

I

1

...

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
How happy I was to be there, en route for the mystery of
these unexplored heights, alone in the great silence, "tasting
the sweets of solitude and tranquillity," as a passage of the
Buddhist Scripture has it!
We ought to have left the dokpar' camp in the middle of the
night to cross the pass a t noon. B u t we were tired, and the
warmth that we felt, lying next to a big fire, kept us sleeping
longer than we had ~ l a n n e d . I shrank also from the idea of
starting without eating and drinking hot tea, for on the higher
level we would find no fuel. W h a t would happen? What
would the road be like? We could not guess. Was the pass
even practicable? People had only told us that it might be.
Yongden, of course, felt reluctant to go s o f a r to fetch water,
inasmuch as the few places where the stream flowed freely
in daytime might be covered with ice after dark. Anyhow,
he went, and we drank our tea. B u t the day broke before we
had left the place.
Later in the morning we reached a latza, which, from a distance, we had taken as marking the top of the pass. Behind it
extended a completely barren valley enclosed between a high
ridge of crumbling reddish stones on one side, and perpendicular cliffs of various pretty greyish and mauve shades on the
other. In the middle of this valley we again saw the river, the
water of which we had drunk a t our breakfast. It fell nearly
straight down in a narrow gorge from the upper valley t o the
lower one. I looked for traces of dokpar' summer encampments-those low stone walls forming enclosures in which cattle are penned, but there were none. I could understand from
the barrenness of the landscape that cattle were probably never
brought SO high.
A nearly straight reddish l i n e t h e sharp summit of a ridge
It seemed-blocked the horizon a t the end of that desolate
The distance without being considerable, appeared
great enough to people ascending with loads on their backs,
in the rarefied air of these high altitudes. Still, the hope of
the end of the climb gave us courage, and we en-

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
deavoured t o accelerate our pace. One thing, however, made
me uneasy-I
did not discover any latza on that ridge, and
Thibetans never fail t o erect a t least one, a t the top of a
pass. T h e explanation came when we had reached the point
from which we had supposed that we would descend the opposite side of the mountain.
How could I express what we felt a t that moment? I t was
a mixture of admiration and grief. W e were a t the same time
wonderstricken and terrified. Quite suddenly an awe-inspiring
landscape, which had previously been shut from our sight by
the walls of the valley, burst upon us.
Think of an immensity of snow, an undulating tableland
limited f a r away a t our left by a straight wall of blue-green
glaciers and peaks wrapped in everlasting, immaculate whitencss. At our right extended a wide valley which ascended
in a gentle slope until we reached the neighbouring summits
on the sky line. I n front, a similar but wider stretch of gradually sloping ground vanished in the distance, without our
being able to discern whether i t led t o the pass or t o another
tableland.
Words cannot give an idea of such winter scenery as we saw
on these heights. I t was one of those overpowering spectacles that make believers bend their knees, as before the veil
that hides the Supreme Face.
But Yongden and I, after our first admiration had subsided,
only looked a t each other in silence. No talk was needed; we
clearly understood the situation.
Which was the way, we did not know! It could just as
well be to our right, as ahead of us. T h e snow did not allow
one t o see any trace of a trail. I t was already late in the afternoon, and t o miss the road meant t o remain wandering all
night on these frozen summits. W e had a sufficient experience of mountaineering in Thibet t o know what it would
mean-the exploration would be ended a t its first step, and the
explorers would never live to tell their tale.
I looked a t my watch; it was three in the afternoon. We
had still several hours of daylight before us, and, happily,
128

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
the moon would shine brightly a t night. W e had not Yet cause
to be really alarmed-the important thing was t o avoid missing the road and to make haste.
1 looked once more a t the valley on our right, then decided:
"Let us proceed straight forward." And SO we went.
I grew excited and, although the snow became deeper and
deeper, I walked rather quickly. W e had not been able to
follow the advice of the Tashi Tse villagers and carry much
food with us. Our host could only sell us a small quantity of
tmumpa. His neighbours had hardly enough for themselves.
They informed us that we could buy some from the servants
of the p6npo. To avoid giving them cause to talk we had
said that we would go t o the zong early the next morning,
which, of course, we didn't! M y bag was, therefore, rather
light, whereas Yongden, carrying the tent, its iron pegs, and
sundries, was much more heavily loaded.
I forged quickly ahead. Dominated by the idea of reaching
the top of the pass, or of discovering if we were going in a
wrong direction, I tramped with the utmost energy through
the snow that reached my knees.
Was the lama far behind? I turned t o look a t him. Never
shall 1 forget the sight! Far, far below, amidst the white silent
immensity, a small black spot, like a tiny Lilliputian insect,
seemed to be crawling slowly up. T h e disproportion between
the giant glacier range, that wild and endless slope, and the
two puny travellers who had ventured alone in that extraordinarily phantasmagoric land of the heights, impressed me
as it had never done before. An inexpressible feeling of compassion moved me to the bottom of my heart. It could not
be possible that my young friend, the companion of SO many
of my adventurous travels, should meet his end in a few hours
On that hill. I would find the pass; it was my duty.
I knew
that 1 would!
There was no time for useless emotion. Evening was already
beginning to dim the shining whiteness of the landscape: We
by then to have been far beyond and below the pass.
I
on, now through the snow field, jumping sometimes

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
with the help of my long staff, proceeding I could not say how,
but progressing quickly. A t last I discerned a white mound
and emerging from it, branches on which hung flags covered
with snow and fringed with ice. It was the latza, the top of
the pass! I signalled to Yongden, who appeared still more
distant and tiny. H e did not see me a t once, but after a
while he too waved his staff. H e had understood that I had
arrived.
There the scenery was grand beyond all description. Behind extended the waste I had crossed. I n front of me was
a precipitous fall of the mountain. Stretching far below, black
l~ndulatingcrests vanished into the darkness. The moon rose
as I looked around in a trance of admiration. Its rays touched
the glaciers and the high snow-robed peaks, the whole white
plain, and some silvery unknown valleys toward which I was
t o proceed. T h e impassive landscape of the day seemed to
awaken under the blue light which metamorphosed it, sparks
glittered to and fro, and faint sounds were wafted by the
Maybe elves of the frozen waterfalls, fairies of the
wind.
snow, and djin-keepers of mysterious caves were to assemble
and play and feast on the illuminated white tableland; or
perhaps some grave council was t o take place between the
giants whose heads wore helmets of cold radiance. What mysteries could not have been discovered by the inquisitive pilgrim who, hidden, dared remain there motionless till dawn.
Not that he could ever have related the wonder of the bewitching night, for his tongue would soon have been stiffened
by the frost!
Thibetans d o not shout '?ha gyalo" after dark. I complied
with the custom and threw only in six directions the old
Sanskrit mantra, "Subham astu sarvajagatam [May all beings
be happy]
Yongden, who, after having understood that he neared the
latza, had taken courage and quickened his pace, caught up
with me. We began to descend. Traces of a track were visible
now and then, for on that side of the mountain the snow wag
not deep and the ground, a yellowish gravel, was often visible.

...

."

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
What might have been the exact level of the pass we had
crossed I would not venture t o tell, as I could not make any
observation. Still, from the comparison of the plants and
various other particulars, one who has tramped for Years
through many mountain ranges, in the same country, may
make a rough guess. I had carefully looked a t the lichens,
and observed a few other things; and I felt nearly certain that
the pass was about 19,000 feet high, even higher perhaps than
the Dokar la I had crossed about two months before, higher
than the Nago la and others that reached from 18,299 t o 18,500.
Although we knew that we should have to walk a part of
the night before we should reach a spot where fuel would
be available, we rejoiced a t having found the pass open and
at having crossed it safely. In this agreeable mood we reached
a valley whose bottom was almost entirely covered by a frozen
stream. There, on the ice, no trace of a track was of course
visible, and we began again t o roam to and fro in search of
some sign to show us our direction. T o follow the course
of the frozen river was the safest way, if we did not find any
better one. I t would take us t o a lower level, no doubt, but
it could also happen that the stream would disappear into a
narrow gorge or fall over a cliff. Still, I had decided t o continue on the ice-at least as long as the valley was open. But
then I found the track again, near the foot of the hill, and we
had only to follow it down, proceeding slowly.
The walk was rather agreeable beneath a beautiful moon.
Here and there we began t o see a few bushes scattered in
Pasture grounds. Otllerwise the country was quite barren.
We could not think of stopping without lighting a fire, for
motion alone kept us warm. N o shelter whatsoever was in
and the cold wind from the snow rushed through the
valley, which had now become rather wide.
We tramped until two o'clock in the morning. For nineteen hours we had been walking, without having stopped or
refreshed ourselves in any way. Strangely enough, I did not
feel tired, but only sleepy !
Yonsden had gone in the direction of the hills in search of

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
fuel, and I found Some near the river, in a flat place, which
must have been a camping-place in the summer, where travellers from the P o country go to the Dainshin province, either
t o trade or on robbery expeditions.
I called the young man back, gathered as much fuel as I
could, and, certain that nobody was wandering in that wilderness, we decided to pitch our tent in a low place among a few
bushes. T h e flint and steel which, according to Thibetan
custom, Yongden carried attached to his belt in a pouch, had
become wet during our passage across the snow fields, and now
it did not work a t all. This was a serious matter. Of course
we were no longer on the top of the range and we had only
a few hours to wait before the sun would rise; but even if
we escaped being frozen, we were not a t all certain that we
should not catch pneumonia or some other serious disease.
"Jetsunma,"
said Yongden, "you are, I know, initiated in
the thulno reskiang practice. Warm yourself and do not bother
about me. I shall jump and move t o keep my blood moving."
True, I had studied under two Thibetan gompchens the
strange art of increasing the internal heat. For long I had
been puzzled by the stories I had heard and read on the
subject and as I am of a somewhat scientific turn of mind I
wanted to make the experiment myself. With great difficulties,
showing an extreme perseverance in my desire to be initiated
into the secret, and after a number of ordeals, I succeeded in
reaching my aim. I saw some hermits seated night after
night, motionless on the snow, entirely naked, sunk in meditation, while the terrible winter blizzard whirled and hissed
around them! I saw under the bright full moon the test
given to their disciples who, on the shore of a lake or a river
in the heart of the winter, dried on their bodies, as on a stove,
a number of sheets dipped in the icy water! And 1 learned
the means of performing these feats. I had inured myself,
during five months of the cold season, to wearing the single
"Jetsunma" or "Jetsun Kusho": "Reverend lady" or "your reverend
ladyship," is the highest honourific tide of address for a woman klonging
to the religious order.

132

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
thin conon garment of the students a t a 13,000-foot level. But
the
once over, I felt that a further training would
have been a waste of time for me, who, as a rule, could choose
my dwelling in less severe climates or provide myself with
heating apparatus. I had, therefore, returned t o fires and
warm clothes, and thus could not be taken for an adept in the
thumo rerkiang, as my companion believed! Nevertheless, I
liked at times to remember the lesson I had learned and to
sit on some snowy summit in my thin dress of reskiang. But
the present was not the time to look selfishly after my own
comfort. I wanted t o try to kindle a fire that had nothing
miraculous about it, but which could warm my adopted son
as well as myself.
"Go!" said I t o Yongden, "collect as much dry cow dung
and dry twigs as you can; the exertion will prevent you from
getting cold. I will see after the fire business."
He went, convinced that the fuel was useless; but I had got
an idea. After all, the flint and steel were wet and cold. What
if I warmed them on me, as I had dried dripping sheets when a
student of thumo reskiang? Thurno r e d i a n g is but a way
devised by the Thibetan hermits of enabling themselves t o
live without endangerino their health on the high hills. It has
9
nothing to do with relig~on,and so it can be used for ordinary
PUrp~~es
without lack of reverence.
I put the flint and steel and a pinch of the moss under my
clothes, sat down, and began the ritualistic practice. 1 mentioned that I felt sleepy on the road; the exertion while c01letting fuel and pitching the tent, the effort to kindle the fire,
had shaken my torpor, but now, being seated, I began t o daze.
Yet my mind continued to be concentrated on the object of the
thumo rite. Soon I saw flames arising around me; they grew
higher and higher; they enveloped me, curling their tongues
above my head. I felt deliciously comfortable.
A loud report awakened me. T h e ice on the river was
'ending. The flames suddenly died down as if entering the
ground. I opened my eyes. The wind was blowing hard
and my body burned. I made haste. T h e flint and steel and

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
moss would work this time; I was convinced of it. I was still
half dreaming, although 1 had got up and walked toward the
tent. I felt fire bursting out of my head, of my fingers.
I placed on the ground a little dry grass, a small piece of very
d r y cow dung, and I knocked the stone. A spark sprang out
of it. I knocked again; another sprang out
another
another
a miniature fireworks.
The fire was
lighted; it was a little baby flame which wanted to grow, to
eat, t o live. I fed it and it leaped higher and higher. When
Yongden arrived with a quantity of dry cow dung in the lap
of his dress and some branches between his arms, he was
joyfully astonished.
"How have you done it?" he asked.
"Well, it is the fire of thumo," I answered, smiling.
T h e lama looked a t me.
"True," he said. "Your face is quite red and your eyes are
so bright
"Yes," I replied, "that is all right. Let me alone now, and
make a good buttered tea quickly. I need a very hot drink."
I feared a little for the morrow, but I awakened in perfect
health when the sun touched the thin cloth of our tent.
T h a t very day we reached the end of the valley we had followed from the foot of the Deo la and entered another wider
valley, enclosed between high ranges. N o trace of human
being was t o be seen; the country was truly what Thibetans
call 5atong.l T h e sun shone, although clouds wandered to and
f r o in a sky of a lighter blue than it had previously been.
T h a t immense space in which we were the only living beings,
as if we had been the first inhabitants and masters of the
earth, was extremely pleasant t o the eye! We had no fear of
missing our way, for we had as guide a clear river descending
from the range that blocked the end of the large valley.
The ground was neither sandy nor very hard, and its imperceptible slope helped our progress. This empty land had a
very peculiar and refreshing charm. After a few hours' march
I observed some black spots scattered over the grass. I wag

. ..

...

. . ."

' Empty land.
134

...

...

M Y JOURNEY T O LHASA
far from being certain of their nature, but after what I had
heard at Tashi Tse about dokpas spending the winter shut in
between the high ranges, I guessed t h a t these black spots
were yaks. I n the northern desert of grass one meets herds
of wild
numbering several hundred animals, but such is
not the case in the region which we were crossing and I
looked for the dwelling-place of the beasts' owners.
For at least another hour we proceeded without discovering
any habitation. At last I saw a camp built of stones heaped
together without any kind of mortar, as is usual in the Thibetan highlands. A few huts were huddled together, with
enclosures around them to pen the cattle. And a wall, a little
higher than the breast, enclosed the hamlet which was sheltered from the winds which swept through the valley. A
chorten and a short mendong testified t o the religious feelings
of the few inhabitants of the place. But in Thibet, as elsewhere, external demonstrations of piety are not always accompanied by an effective practice of compassion, benevolence, and
like virtues. When Yongden begged a shelter for the night
and some food, he was told to pass on his way and to go to the
next camp.
The next camp was discovered late in the evening, and the
answer was still less courteous. However, before reaching i t
I had seen a place where we should have been well protected
against the wind. It was the place where the dokpas of the
valley put the bones of their dead.
When I speak of bones one must not fancy a charnel house.
There is not such a thing in Thibet.
Thibetans prefer cremation to all other ways of disposing
of dead bodies, and their great lamas are incinerated in a big
cauldron filled with butter. But that kind of fuel is f a r too
expensive for the common people, so in the barren regions,
where wood is not available, the dead are placed on the hills
and abandoned there to the vultures and other wild animals.
In central Thibet the prevalent custom is t o cut the corpse
into pieces before leaving it on the cemetery ground. When
the flesh has been eaten by the animals and the bones are

M Y JOURNEY T O LHASA
dry, the family collects them, or a part of them, and hands
them to a lama, who pounds them, mixing their dust with clay,
and ~ o u l d sa number of miniature chorten called tja-tja,
I t is in this shape that the pulverized bones of the ancestors
are kept in places built for this purpose near the villages, or
deposited in caves and other clean spots.
Sufficient room still remained in the tsa-tsa hut which I had
discovered t o allow us t o lie down, but there was nothing fit
t o burn near it, and as the dokpas' door remained closed we
had t o choose between the night under a roof withbut fire and
without meal, or the open air with both. We chose the open
air, and spent the night in a small rocky place surrounded by
bushes.
T h e next day we continued t o follow the river until we
arrived a t a bridge. Bridges are few in that country and I was
most astonished t o see one on that but little trodden summer
track. Yet you must not fancy a structure such as Westerners are accustomed t o meet on the roads of their countries.
Four or five trunks of fir trees, long and thin, resting on two
piles, a few flat stones placed on them here and there to step
on-such
was the bridge! I t was used, I should imagine,
when the melting snow considerably increased the volume of
the water. At any other season men and beasts forded the
stream.
T h a t bridge, poor as it was, would not have been built without reason. T h e track certainly passed over it, yet I saw it
continuing clearly marked on the side where we stood. I
was puzzled. Should we cross, or not? We decided to cross,
fell amongst thorny bushes growing in marshy ground, and,
being tired out, had nearly decided to camp, leaving to tile
morrow the care of looking for a road, when we saw a few
boys tending cattle. I went toward them and learned that
some d o k p a ~had a camp on the opposite bank of the river,
which we had just left. The children told me also that I had
arrived a t the foot of the three passes that led into the country
of Po. One of them was blocked by the snow; they were
certain of it. Regarding the two others they could give no

136

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
information. I t might be that one of them, or both, were still
open.
Then a woman who had seen us from a distance joined the
boys and repeated what they said about the passes. She
advised us to continue our way as f a r as we could on the
track of the Aigni la, and t o rest a part of the night wherever
we found water and wood, so as to be able t o begin t o climb
again before daybreak, for it was a long way to the top of
the pass, and even if it was open we would find high snow
toward the summit. T h e prospect was agreeable indeed for
people who had just struggled hard t o go over one high
range! Really the woman's news was not cheerful.
Yet we were prepared for such news, having been told that a
second pass, difficult t o negotiate, even if it was not entirely
blocked, lay on our way. W e realized the necessity of progressing quickly toward the villages of Po, for we had but
a small quantity of food left, and our appetites, after daily
mountaineering, were enormous. Why did we not rejoice to
near that last range and to think that the next day we should
very likely climb down into that P o yul of which we had
spoken and dreamed for years? I could find no reason, except
for our recent rather trying experience a t the Deo la. W e
had not much time, however, to waste in analysis of our feelings; the most important thing was t o reach the summit of
the hill early on the morrow, in order to have as long as passible to look for the road, if doubt rose about it, or if we were
hindered and delayed in any other way. So we had decided
to continue our way and to camp higher up, when a man
carrying a load of wood emerged from the thickets.
Yongden was once more cornpelled t o relate the false stories
of our pilgrimages, native land, and other kindred matters.
Then, in his turn he questioned the dokpa about the passes.
The answers he got confirmed what we had successively heard
from the boys and from the woman. T h e man also advised
the passage of the Aigni la. H e said that it was longer than
that across the Gotza la, but much less steep and easier on
the opposite side of the mountain which we had t o climb down.

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
W e also would find on that side, he continued, some cowmen's summer huts, empty a t the present season, which would
afford us shelter.
I felt most anxious t o put some questions about the springs
of the river flowing all along the Po country; but, as beggar
pilgrims, unless they have already travelled the road before,
are not supposed to have any geographical knowledge of what
exists in the region which lies ahead of them, and as, moreover, they d o not care in the least for such things, it would
have been imprudent t o ask anything directly. I turned the
difficulty, pretending t o be concerned with very material cares.
"What about water?" I enquired. 'Will we get some beyond
the pass?"
"Have n o fear!" answered the man. "You will follow a
river t o a place where there are pasture grounds. I only know
so much. I have never been further."
"Is there water also on the Gotza la side?" I asked again.
"Yes, but the stream is much smaller."
"And what about the third pass?"
I was insisting too much, I felt, but as snow and other circumstances prevented me from wandering a t will on the mountains, I wished t o get whatever information possible, and would
have chosen the Gotza la had I had some reason to believe that
journey to be more interesting.
"What?" replied the man, frowning. "You cannot cross
the Yontsong la. I t is blocked by the snow.
Dokpas say
there is a large river on that side.
What does that matter
to you ?"
Yongden quickly interfered.
"Ah," he said, laughingly, "you d o not know the old mother.
She always fears t o miss her tea. Her eyes are continually in
search of water and a place to stay to make tea. If I listened
to her we would spend more than half of the day drinking!"
T h e dokpa echoed the lama's laughter.
"Ah! ah!" he said. "Truly tea is a good thing, especially
for women who d o not drink as much spirit as we do."
But Yongden had a sudden inspiration.

...

...

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
"Elder brother," he said t o the man, "it is a good thing t o
q u i r e merits by performing good deeds. It is useful for this
life and the next.
"You see, I am a lama and here is an old woman, a nagspa
yum,l my mother. We are both neskorpa,2 and to help us
would be, without any doubt, a most meritorious action. Get
horses for us and lead us t o the top of the Aigni la, for we are
very tired indeed."
It was a rather bold attempt. T o persuade a dokpa t o d o
such a service free is, as a rule, impossible. Hidden in our
belts we had valuable arguments which could have decided the
man easily and spared a lot of diplomacy, but we did not deem
it safe to produce them in that country. Seated on the ground,
I observed with interest the mental wrestle of the two cunning
fellows. But the dokpa was not capable of competing with
my adopted son, who, in some ways could have taught Ulysses
himself. Yet his victory was not complete; he obtained only
one horse, which we were t o ride in turn, he and I, and the
dokpa would carry our load on his back. Such a piece of good
luck, however, seemed wonderful.
As it would be out of the question to take the horse that
evening and camp on the road, and as, on the other hand,
Yongden did not like to part with the dokpa lest the latter
escape from his influence and break his promise, he asked t o
be allowed to spend the night in the house. The dokpa thought
a second or two, and granted the request.
NOWwe had to recross the river, the cowmen's camp being
situated on the bank we had left a t the bridge. I feared t o
take off my high felt boots and show my white legs. These
would, no doubt, be noticed, so, pretending that, on account
of rheumatism, I could not tramp in iced water for fear of
severe pain, I turned my steps toward the bridge, although
it was rather far. But the good man, who had already had

' N a g ~ p ayum: The wife of a eorcerer who has herself received a
Special ordination.
' A nerkorpa: Litenlly, one who circulates from one place of pilgrimage to another one-a pilgrim.

139

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
a little religious talk with the lama, declared that he would
take us, one after the other, on his back, and put us down
on the other side of the stream.
I was greatly pleased to be relieved from a rather long walk,
but a t the same time I felt embarrassed about my revolver,
the bag in which I carried our small provision of gold, and
the belt filled with silver which I wore under my dress.
When I am on that man's back, I thought, he will think
that I am rather heavy for my size and feel that I have hard
If he thinks of
objects on my breast under my robe.
hidden money that may be our death. Had our future guide
been alone, I could have more or less easily changed a little
the place of the various dangerous objects so that they could
not be so easily detected, but the woman and the boys who
followed us, chatting, deterred me.
Anyhow, simulating the gesture familiar to all Thibetans, of
one who ( I beg your pardon, my readers!) feels uncomfortable
on account of lice and looks for the unpleasant animals in his
dress, I succeeded in pushing my automatic pistol under my
left armpit, the small bag of gold under the right one, and in
lifting the belt a little higher up. Nobody, of course, had given
any attention t o my actions, the motive of them being clear
and habitual t o all.

...

Our arrival a t the dokpas' encampment did not excite much
curiosity. Yongden and I were quite commonplace, poor travellers. A man led us to a small hut which had sheltered
goats-the ground, covered with a thick layer of rima,' clearly
told its tale. Maybe the beasts would share it with us next
night-such familiarity between animals and human beings is
not rare amongst Thibetan cowmen. I nearly regretted having met these boys and the woman who first delayed us on
our way. Had they not seen us, we should have camped alone
amongst the bushes, in a much cleaner place than this goatpen,
and we could have explored the hills a t leisure. NOW we
should be compelled to keep strictly t o our r81e of destitute
1

R i m : Goat or rheep dung.

140

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
ncrkorpa, for the people of those parts have a sinister name
as robbers.
In Thibet, unless one is convinced that he has been seen by
none, it is always safer to stay with the people of the country,
even if it is certain that they are regular thieves or highwaymen. The reason for it is that Thibetans, unless they are
drunk, fighting for their own lives, or have some other exceptional reason, shrink from killing. T h a t feeling is the result of
the Buddhist teaching of the respect for life which has permeated the mind of the Thibetans, although only very dim notions
about the Buddha's doctrine have spread in their country.
But if the man whom they have robbed is set free and can
indicate the scene of the robbery, the robbers run the risk
of being denounced by him t o some chief. Of justice there is
not much in Thibet and officials d o not, as a rule, listen to
the travellers who have met with misfortune on their way,
unless they be rich traders from whom valuable presents may
be expected. Anyhow, villagers or dokpas refer robberies
to take place a t a distance from their homes, so that they can
answer all enquiries which may be made with: "We d o not
know about the thing. W e are not the thieves. They must
have been travellers from another country who were on their
way."
The highwaymen of Thibet d o not form a special class of
people exclusively employed in brigandage. I n some parts of
the country all men, without exception, are robbers, even t o
the extent of leaving husbandry entirely to the womenfolk, a
more profitable work claiming the males of the tribe! This is
perhaps an uncommon case; but in the outer provinces many
peasants or cowmen with all the appearance and ways of honest
folk, occasionally unite in a gang t o form a plundering expedition in a neighbouring district or to attack a caravan, and, in
any case, are prompt to despoil the travellers who cross their
path. The terrible or amusing stories I have heard about
attacks on the hill roads, or in the desert steppes, the number
of the robbers' victims I have seen, compel me t o believe that
insecurity prevails to a large extent in the fairyland of Thibet;

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
but I owe it t o its inhabitants t o testify that personally,
though I have had a few disquieting meetings, I have never
suffered any loss. 1 may say the same about China, although
I have travelled in the midst of the civil war as well as
through the wildest regions of the remote Szetchuanese and
Yunnanese f a r west. Some will think that I have been uncommonly lucky. I shall not disagree; but luck has a cause, like
anything else and I believe that there exists a mental
attitude capable of shaping circumstances more or less according t o one's wishes.
Thibetans are simple men. Brigandage is for them merely
an adventurous sport, in which they d o not discover anything
fundamentally wicked so long as it does not cause death. No
one is ashamed to practise it. T h e shame is for the one who
has been robbed, who has not been able to defend himself by
sheer strength or by cleverness.
"Elder brothers, give me a man t o accompany me for a
few days t o the shore of the lake," I said once, when spending the summer amongst the famous Gologs robber tribes,
6
and, during my absence, look after my camp, my luggage, and
my horses. You old brigands know the tricks of the trade!
Shame on you if some one is able t o take away what is around
your tents !"
T h e y laughed heartily, not offended in the least, but rather
proud of my appreciation of their valour as bandits. After
all, they may have unconsciously felt the power of my sympathy, and my love for their land and for themselves-wild
children of the wild heights!
To return t o our dokpas' camp. We knew that we would
be safer in their midst than isolated a t some distance, and we
hoped also to be able to go round a-begging and get some food
as alms, for to show money in such a place would have been
unwise. However much one may trust in one's
luck,
one must not forget t o be sensible.
I asked for some burning pieces of cow dung to kindle a
fire, and enquired about the dogs. Might I safely go to the
river t o fetch water? But a woman brought us curd and tea,
(

142

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
and I delayed lighting the fire until I had refreshed myself.
During that time the chief of the family had come and talked
with Yongden. Feeling satisfied with what he had learned
about us, he deemed us worthy t o be shown into his own
dwelling. We were told that we did not need t o worry about
fire and water, for we should get our meals in the house of
the master.
The large kitchen we entered was like villagers' kitchens
all over Thibet. T h e hearth occupied a large place on the
bottom of it. All around, the walls and shelves, some in wood,
others in stone, supported various household utensils, big store
boxes, bags of wool to be spun, sheepskins, and sundries, all
covered with a thick layer of dust and blackened b y the smoke.
Windows there were none, the smoke hole being a t the same
time the light hole. But between the roof and the top of the
wall there was a gap which allowed a certain amount of light
to enter the room. Moreover, with the exception of the upper
classes living in towns, Thibetans are accustomed t o dark
dwellings.
The sun had already set when we entered the kitchen. A
big fire was burning, and on a large iron tripod something
boiled in a huge cauldron, which was evidently of great interest to the inmates of the house, for they all eyed it with
the greatest attention.
We were received rather ~olitely. T h e head of the family
spread a ragged carpet for the lama in the most honourable
place, next the hearth, and the women who spun a t the lower
end of it told me t o sit on the floor next them.
Then began the tiresome talk, always the same, about our
country, our pilgrimages, and the like. Moreover, the master
of the house and the other members of the family wished, aa
usual, to take the opportunity of a lama's presence t o get
from him an amount of ecclesiastic service a t least equal t o the
value of the hospitality they gave him.
Again Yongden had t o pay in prophetic oracles, blessings,
and the like for the tea, the trampa, and the shelter we both
enjoyed.

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
H e did not like, he told me later on, the look of his host,
thinking that he had all the features and the ways of a robber.
Partly because, as I have said, we really needed some provisions, and partly t o impress upon the minds of the dokpar
that we were real paupers, he asked leave for a time to go
on a begging round through the encampment. Such being the
current practice of arjopas, nobody showed any astonishment.
"My mother is tired," he told the people of the house. "She
will sleep now, because we must start a t night for the pass, and
she needs rest.'' And addressing me, "Come here, mother!"
he said. "Lie down! I shall not be away very long.''
H e went and I took his place on the carpet, my head resting on my own bag which was placed against my son's in such a
way that it was not possible t o move one of them without shaking the other one. Travellers in Thibet become experts in such
devices, for, unless they spend the night a t the house of relatives
or well-known friends, they must always fear petty thefts.
I made a pretence of sleeping, but remained, of course,
fully awake, observing the doings of our hosts, listening to
their talk, ready for any event. I did not move when I
heard the head of the family saying t o the others in a low,
subdued tone, "What can they be carrying in their bags?"
Maybe he was prompted by mere curiosity, but it was doubtful. Would things turn out badly?
I waited.
H e spoke again with those next him, but his voice was SO
low that I could not understand what he said, and through
my lowered eyelashes I saw the tall fellow coming slowly,
noiselessly toward me. I noticed also that he had no arms
upon him. As for myself, my revolver was a t hand under my
dress, but it would have been of no use in a camp full of
cowmen. Strategy would be a better weapon and I wondered
what trick I could invent if the situation required it, when the
man extended his large hand and cautiously felt the bag which
I had used as a pillow.
I moved a little and he drew back his hand immediately,
saying, with a vexed intonation:
"She is waking up!"

...

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
But I had found my stratagem.
"Lags, lagr, Gelong lags [Yes, yes, reverend monk] !" I said,
imitating the voice of one who speaks half in dreams. I then
opened my eyes widely, looked around as if bewildered, and
asked in a natural way: "Is my son, the lama, not here? Oh,
strange! I have just heard him telling me: 'Awake mother!
I am coming!' "
Awake quickly!
"He has not yet come back," answered the nepoJ1 who
looked rather frightened. "Do you wish me to send for him?"
"No, no," I replied. "I do not want him. I would not dare
to trouble him. H e is a learned and saintly gelong.' H e will
I a m all right here with you all, near
come soon, I know.
99
that good fire.
t(
Have a cup of tea," said a woman.
"Yes, I will. Most kind of YOU," I answered, ~olitely,producing my bowl.
Yongden entered the room. His arrival, coming on top of
this incident, caused a sort of sensation.
"I heard you well, Gelong lags," I said, "when you told me
to awaken, and I did so. I really thought you were in the
room. Is it not so, nepo?"
l(
It is so, it is so," pumbled the nepo, whose mind was very
likely a little agitated.
Yongden understood that something had happened that he
could not guess, but which he must follow up with me.
"Good! good!" he said in the deep voice of the lamas when
they chant in the choir.
"Be awakened!
Be awakened! . His eyes turned in all directions, and seeing
nothing in particular to justify that order, he looked rather
comical. He had collected some butter and a little trampa,
and even a small piece of silver that he could not refuse
without arousing suspicion.
The story behind it was a sad one. T h e only son of a cowman had died some months ago, and a lama belonging t o a
monastery situated far beyond the passes had performed the

...

...

. ."

. ..

...

...

Master of the house; the mistress is called wmo.

' A lama who keeps the rule of celibacy.

145

M Y JOURNEY T O LHASA
rites for the dead. Nevertheless, the sorrowful parents were
not satisfied, and still entertained some doubt about the situation of their little one. T h e boy was about eleven years old
when he departed t o the next world, and they begged Yongden t o stay a few days t o perform a supplementary ceremony.
As he declined, explaining that for various reasons he must
proceed quickly, they had instantly begged him to utter at
least the mystic sentence that lights the lost wanderer through
the various roads of the beyond and, as if taking him by the
hand, leads him to the Western Paradise, the Land of Bliss.
W h o could refuse these simple-minded ones the innocent
illusion that meant s o much t o them? And so, accompanying
his religious performance with a sermon on morality addressed
t o a number of dokpas, men and women, Yongden had seated
the little cowboy on a lotus in the Heaven of Chenreszigr.
T h e nepo, now even more convinced of the greatness of the
lama, drove me away from the carpet where I had remained
seated, listening t o the story of the dead boy.
"Go, go, mother! Sit behind now. Let the lama be comfortable !"
I moved back t o the bare floor, in obedience to custom,
casting on Yongden a glance which ordered him t o say nothing
and to be seated on the carpet.
T h e mystery of the cauldron was now revealed. The cover
was removed and a long iron hook was dipped into the boiling
broth. It brought out the heart, the lungs, and the liver of
a yak, together with its stomach and bowels, which had been
filled with meat and tsampa to make a kind of sausage. The
whole flabby mass was placed on a large wooden tray, careand put aside.
fully covered with a piece of sacking
Then trampa was poured into the broth, and ten minutes
afterwards, the lama first, then the nepo, and I amongst the
last, filled our bowls. I n view of the effort which I should
have t o make to climb the pass, I endeavoured to feed myself
as much as possible, and drank off three full bowls.
After the meal the nepo, evidently leased to chat with a

...

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
traveller who could tell of so many distant places of pilgrimage,
began an endless and most uninteresting talk. I hardly listened to it, thinking of the country of Po, from which I was
separated only by a single range, and recollecting various
observations made during the day, when a few words made
me start as if I had been struck.
'(I have heard," said the nepo, "that some philings have been
to the Kha Karpo."
Philingr?
t o Kha Karpo!
Was i t possible that
rumours had spread about us? Or could it be t h a t the official
had searched for us on the direct roads t o Lhasa, and that we
owed our liberty solely t o the devious route we had chosen?
Who could tell! But if such was the case, they would be
on the lookout around Lhasa, and would perhaps catch US
near our goal.
Yongden tried t o gather where the news came from. As
usual in Thibet, the man did not know. H e had heard it from
some travellers, who might themselves have heard it from
others. News hawked in such a way might well be several years
old and have no connection whatsoever with us. An English
consul and his Thibetan wife had toured the Kha Karpo three
or four years ago. Perhaps they were these philiny. Or had
the American naturalist, whom we had left in the Lurzekiang,
attempted to pursue h i s researches in the now forbidden zone?
We could not guess, and the unpleasant feeling of hunted
game, from which we had been freed for a few weeks, troubled
US Once more.
Yongden was n o longer in the mood t o continue entertaining
the nepo with stories of remote places of pilgrimage. H e
declared that he wanted to sleep.
But the nepo, without appearing t o have heard him, produced a request. T h e dokpas, he said, felt much anxiety about
the snow which had fallen in but small quantity that year.
The ground remained dry and would not store sufficient moisture t~ ensure a full growth of the grass on the pasture land.
And what of the cattle which needed abundant food, after the
half-starving period of winter? Would the snow fall soon?

...

...

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
T h e lama could tell. H e could also, by his art in the
secret spells, cause i t to come down from the sky and cover
the earth*
Would he not d o what was required to bring
about that happy result? .
Yongden was tired out, but it was unsafe either to displease
the dokpas or t o let them believe that he was not a quite
capable lama.
"Several days are needed," he answered, C tto perform these
rites, and as 1 must proceed to Po yul, I cannot call down the
snow that will block the very passes which I must cross. What
yo3 ask is rather a complicated piece of business."
All those present agreed that it was.
in
"Let us see," continued my young friend. "Yes
that way
H e produced a small piece of paper out of a sack and
asked that barley be brought to him, if they had some. He
then placed a few grains on the paper and holding it outstretched on his open palms, lapsed into a deep meditation.
A chanting followed whose slow rhythm and whispering sound
gradually grew louder and louder until it rolled like thunder
beneath the low, ramshakle roof of the large kitchen.
T h e dokpas looked really terrified.
Yongden stopped abruptly, which caused everybody, including myself, to start up.
Then he divided the grains that had been used for the performance of the rite into two parts, putting one half aside in a
corner of his handkerchief, and leaving the remaining part in
the paper which was folded in a peculiar and complicated way.
"Here, take it," he ordered the nepo, "and listen! You
will open that paper to-morrow a t sunset, and throw the grain
it contains toward the sky in the four directions. I myself
will a t the same time recite the ngags [spells] needed to make
an abundant fall of snow. Now, if you open the paper belore
sunset, before I have uttered the ngagr; the deities, not being
propitiated in the proper way, will feel irritated and revenge
themselves upon you all. So be careful!"
T h e man promised to follow exactly the orders he had re-

..

. . ."

..

...

MY JOURNEY TO L H A S A
ceived, and a t last the thought arose in his mind that he had
perhaps exacted from the lama more than the value of the
meagre hospitality he had shown us. So he told his wife t o
fetch a piece of meat that we might carry as provision on the
road. The woman brought a quite excellent ~ i e c e ,but her
husband snatched it out of her hand before she had time t o
present it to the lama, hung it u p again, and carefully chose a
skinny bit which he gave with the utmost gravity to my companion. We were hard put t o it not to laugh aloud, so n ~ u c h
had we enjoyed the fun.
I cannot," declared Yongden, who is ~ e r f e c t l yconversant
((

with the religious monastic rules, "thank you for a gift of
meat, which is an impure thing, the result of the great sin of
killing. I t would be as if I rejoiced a t the slaughter of that
animal, because I have a piece of its flesh t o eat. But give
me some tsampa and I will bless your home."
The words of the lama were most edifying and strictly orthodox, but they had still another quality, in that they were to
provide us with some barely flour, which, however small in
quantity, would prove very useful.
A big bowl heaped high with tsampa was laced before him.
Yongden threw a few pinches of it in various directions, called
health and prosperity on the host, his family, and his belongings. And before the nepo had time to take back the flour,
which he had only lent for ritualistic purposes, my son poured
the contents of the bowl into our bag, which I had promptly
extended toward him, kneeling in a most devout attitude.
We now hoped that the old miser, who looked rather astonished at the sight of his empty bowl, would allow the lama t o
rest. We were anxious t o sleep a few hours before starting
on a new tiring march whose end we could not foresee. T h e
Pass might be blocked, or other obstacles might arise on our
Way. Who could ever tell? As for the dofpas, we felt safe.
I had very well understood the cunning of Yongden, who
wished to prevent any of the cowmen from following us. T h e
morning the story of the grain would spread, and everyOne would feel far too interested in its success t o attempt

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
anything that could hinder the magic work which was to bring
the desired snow. Then, when the grain had been thrown
toward the sky, the dokpas would wait for the result for at
least another full day. W e should be far away by that time,
amongst other people. A t least, so we believed, but events
were t o take a very different turn.
T w o women arranged the couch of the nepo for the night.
I cannot say the "bed," for Thibetans, as well as a large number
of Asiatics, including Japanese, have no bed. Rich Thibetans
sleep on thick cushions covered with fine tapestry; poor ones
on the bare floor o r ground. Between these two extremes there
exist countless degrees of thickness and beauty in the cushions,
until one comes to a single piece of ragged sackcloth or of
greasy sheepskin. B u t in any case, the blankets, or whatever
takes their place, are put aside during the day and brought
out when they are needed for the night.
When all was ready, the old dokpa took off his robe, keeping on his trousers, according to the general custom of Thibet,
where women as well as men sleep with the upper part of
the body naked. Then he slipped between the sheepskins which
were spread a t the best and warmest place near the hearth. A
bucket was placed in the middle of the room t o spare the
people of the house the trouble of going out a t night. I had
never seen such a thing elsewhere. Village people, as a rule,
have regular closets, partly for cleanliness' sake, but especially
to accumulate manure for the field, that supplied by the cows,
sheep, and goats being reserved as fuel. Dokpas in the SOL
tude, who have large spaces before them and no agriculture
whatever, d o not feel the need of special accommodation and
as a rule retire outside their tents a t night as well as in
daytime.
Most of the men and women had not waited for the master
t o lie down. Young married couples rolled themselves in a
large blanket with their children between them; elder people
or bachelors rested alone; and the youngsters heaped themselves together like so many puppies, laughing and fighting for
their share o! the covering rags, till sleep silenced them.

CHAPTER V

Y

OW many hours have I slept? 1 cannot guess. I feel

as if 1 had shut my eyes only a few minutes before.
t is time to start," repeats the man whose voice has awakened me. He throws a few branches amongst the smouldering
embers; the flame illumines the sleepers, some of whom
grumble and roll up more tightly in their blankets. W e are
quickly ready. Dressing consists merely of tying our belts
and our garters, for our loads have not been opened. W e are
off in no time.
I(
Kale pheb,l lama !" says the nepo from between his sheepskin covering as we pass the door.
The moon, screened by a high peak, sheds but a dim light
upon the valley. T h e wind blows hard. I feel exceedingly
cold and my fingers freeze. Even wrapped as they are in the
long sleeves of my thick dress, I have difficulty in gripping
my staff. The shallow river which was flowing the day before
at the place we crossed it is here covered with thick ice. On
the opposite bank the narrow trail winds between thickets. It
branches several times, and other tracks cross it. W e should
very likely have wasted a good deal of time in that labyrinth,
had we not been guided. I decline, as does Yongden, the
tation to ride. It is too dreadfully cold. I prefer t o keep
on walking until the sun rises.
'I'he landscape, as much as I can see of it, is very different
from that which extends between Tashi Tse and the summit of
the Deo la. The latter was truly majestic, whereas the narrow valley which we now follow breathes occult hostility and
treachery.
After a few hours' walk, a pale-green dawn breaks and
rather adds to the uncomfortable impression produced by
"Proceed alowly," a polite farewell to departing guests.

151

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
the landscape. There is but little snow on the track we are
following, but enormous quantites are heaped in the gorges
which score its sides.
T h e sun rises shyly amidst the clouds. We cross small
pastures covered with wet grass, wintry and yellowish. 1 ride
for a while, but soon get off and linger behind, leaving the
horse t o Yongden. T h e dokpa who walks a t his girth annoys
me with his uninterrupted twaddle. I like silence when wandering across the hills. So many voices may be heard there by
trained ears and an attentive mind.
A little later, snow begins to appear on the path and grows
deeper as we continue. A gigantic white mound marks the
beginning, says our guide, of a summer track leading to another
pass. Seeing it, I understand that I must give up all idea
of roaming about on the range, as I should have liked to do.
Explorations in those regions ought t o take place during the
very short period between the time when the mud caused by
the melting of the snow and the summer rains is somewhat
dried, and that of the first important snowfall, an interval of
scarcely six weeks.
T h a t year, owing t o that scarcity of snow which alarms the
dokpas, the Aigni la is easily practicable. We reach its latza
before noon.
Our guide has laid down the lama's load, which he had
carried until then. H e is about t o leave us and take his
horse back to the camp.
Although our disguise and our care for our safety did not
allow us t o be over-generous, I had always meant to give a
little present to the good man. Yongden's sermon on the
merits inherent in the services rendered gratis to lama pilgrims
was aimed only a t convincing the dokpar of our poverty. The
night before, when all had been asleep, I whispered in my
young companion's ear what he was t o do. And now he obeys
my instructions.
Slowly he produces two coins from his purse and, wrapped
in a piece of paper, a pinch of dried cypress leaves.
"This money," he declares, solemnly, "is all that I have got.

hlY J O U R N E Y T O L H A S A

I have received it from the p6npo of Tashi Tse, for the welfare
of whom I read the Sacred Scripture a t the zong. You have
helped us both, my mother and me. I therefore give it to you
as well as that sang which comes from the far distant holy
nes [place of pilgrimage] called Kha Karpo."
Though the price we give for the hiring of a horse with its
driver is small, money is so rare amongst dokpas that the
man cannot but be satisfied. W e are confident, also, that he
will hide the silver and keep silent about it, lest some one
should rob him of it. Thus d o we mingle prudence and
righteousness.
Yongden adds some words meant t o impress the man and
his friends, to whom he will doubtless repeat them, and t o let
them know that we are not devoid of protection in the country
we are entering. This detail may easily influence the dokpas
and prevent them from following us.
"Take the money, elder brother," insists the lama. "We
have arrived on the territory of the P o gyalpo [king]; his
anchor [chaplain] is an old friend of mine. W e both belong
to the Sera monastery a t Lhasa, so, if I am in need, he will
ask the king to help me."
"Of course he will, k u s J ~ o[sir]," agrees the man, in a
respectful tone which shows how much the poor travellers have
progressed in his esteem. "But I refer to take the Jang
alone. It is most precious. As for the money, if I accepted it
I would lose the merit of having served a lama.
No, I
shall not take it. I like better t o keep the merit. It is useful
for the next life as well as for this one.
Please give me
your blessing, kurho. I must make haste now. Kale pheb,
Lama ! Kale pheb, mother !"
With that he was gone, happy with the dust of a few dry
leaves and the belief that he had sown a few seeds of future

...

...

Sang: dried leaves burned as perfume in p r i f y i n g and exorcist rites,
is incense in the Roman Church. Cypress and fir trees are more
generally used, but, on some hills, azalea leaves and young fern shoots
are burned. In the Himalayas a kind of "feverfew" is also gathered for
the same purpose.

:I53

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
felicity in this world or in another one. The poor thing! My
hearty good wishes followed him.
W e stood near the latza. We had not shouted the habitual
"Lha gyalo.'" as Thibetan custom requests. We had nothing
of that joyful excitement which makes one enthusiastically
salute the conquest of the summit a t the end of an exhausting
climb. Accustomed to long tramps, that short ride had been
a real luxury t o us. For the first time since we had left
China, we had reached a pass without fatigue, and perhaps it
was t h a t which prevented us from being cheerful.
Anyhow, it was neither the time nor the place t o tarry and
ponder over psychological problems.
"Lha gyalo!"
T h e shout was rather listless.
"It will snow," said Yongden, who looked unusually grave.
dl
I suspect it since the sun has risen in such a melancholy
way," I replied. "But will it snow to-day? Could our nepo
have thrown, before the appointed hour, the grain you gave
him yesterday ?"
T h e joke found n o echo in the lama.
"Let us be quick," he said.
I did not like to see him in such a gloomy mood, so I continued: "Do you remember that Nagspa lama of the KOKONo?
who could, so the cowmen said, make the snow and rain and
hail fall or stop a t his will? He has taught me some of his
ngagr. Let us bet on the result. You have called the snow*
I will try t o prevent it."
T h e young man did not even smile.
d(
T h e poor fellows need snow for their pastures," he said"Let them have it." And he began to stride down the steep
white slope.
His strange attitude impressed me! Why was he SO gready
concerned about snow? W e had seen much of it in previous
journeys. It was not a thing to frighten US, especially as we
were so near the villages. Perhaps he felt unwell.
I hastened to join the lama, who was already far below. In
spite of my efforts the distance between him and me increased

154

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
rapidly-which annoyed me. I tried t o run straighter, avoiding the loss of time caused by long windings. Then, I suppose
some invisible and compassionate little mountain fairy, seeing
my trouble and wishing to d o me a gracious service, pulled
me by the foot. I n the tenth part of a second I fell and slid
just as in a toboggan race, yet with the noteworthy difference
that I was myself the toboggan and its driver, all in one! I
had happily succeeded in grasping my staff low enough to use
it to steer. I n such wise, dispensing with any "tacking," I
passed Yongden with the speed of a n express train and ~ u l l e d
up far ahead of him.
He hurried as quickly as he could and joined me as I shook
off the snow that covered m y dress and my load. Satisfied
with my answer that I had not hurt myself, he declared that
my performance looked quite pretty and had spared me a good
deal of exertion.
It had another result, which I appreciated still more, for
Yongden had recovered his good-humoured laugh.
What vague premonition had for a moment thrown a gloom
over the cheerful mind of my young companion? I did not
venture to offer any explanation. B u t truly we were approaching rather trying circumstances.
Judging from the scenery, I could guess that the country
toward which we proceeded was entirely different from the
upper Salween basin in its physical aspects.
The air was charged with moisture, the ground wet, even
slightly marshy, in some places. Snow had already fallen in
quantities and the dokpnr of the region had no reason t o feel
anxious for the growth of the grass, as did those living on the
opposite side of the mountain range.
Soon we entered the zone of trees and followed the shore
of the river springing a t the foot of the Aigni la. It led us
to large pasture lands which occupied the area a t the intersection of three valleys. W e had walked down through one of
them, another opened just opposite, beyond the pastures,
and a stream, larger than that coming from the Aigni pass,
issued from it. The third received the united waters of

M Y JOURNEY T O LHASA
the two rivers which would, far away, flow into the Ycru
T ~ a n g p o(Brahmaputra) and bring the melted snows of the
mighty range I had crossed into the Indian Ocean.
I had now been able to discover one of the springs of the
river Po, whose upper course is unknown to geographers. The
second interested me greatly. It originated, it seemed, in the
vicinity of the pass which the dokpas had named Yon tsong 10
and which was blocked for the present. That much-to-beregretted circumstance left me n o hope of climbing it to inspect
the range on that side. But I wished a t least t o follow the
river up as high as I could, and t o gather whatever observations I might be able to make in my humble way. I was far
from suspecting that this bit of rough scouting, such as I had
so often done in Thibet, was to lead me into a short but rather
exciting adventure which turned out all right, but could have
ended otherwise.
Briefly, I explained my intertion to Yongden.
Still more laconic, he answered curtly: "It will snow, and
we have no food."
These were words worthy of some reflection.
T h e snow! .
I did not fear it. As for the food, I opened
the bags, inspected their contents with the lama, and we agreed
that there remained a sufficient quantity for three meals. Three
meals meant three days, for we had not come to these Thibetan
wilds t o indulge in gastronomy. Moreover, I did not intend to
linger in the upper valleys; a mere glance would satisfy my
curiosity and enable me t o supply a few general facts to those
interested in that virgin river.
93
"Forward!

..

...

After sunset the snow began to fall, lightly a t first-just a
few butterflies whirling among the black trees. Then it gradually became more and more dense, one of those slow snowfalls, whose flakes descend from some inexhaustible heavenly
store, shrouding the mighty peaks and burying the valleys.
"Let us pitch the tent," I said. "We will light a fire inside
it and have tea."

156

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA

We really needed some refreshment. Since the evening soup
of the day before, eaten a t the dokpas' camp, we had taken no
food.
Dry wood was scarce. T o cut and collect some while the
snow fell kept us busy for a long time. Nevertheless we gathered enough small branches to boil the tea. Our frugal meal
having been hastily eaten, we threw the remaining embers outside, for the heat melted the snow on the thin cloth and water
dripped freely on us. I t also became evident that our pilgrim staffs, which were used as tent poles, could not bear the
weight of the snow for long. Since we could not run the risk
of breaking them, we established, with the cloth only, a kind
of sloping shelter fixed with a few stones on an adjacent rock.
We then lay down beneath it, and as it was not very cold we
soon fell asleep.
A sensation of painful oppression awakened me. I lifted m y
head, and immediately knocked it against our roof. Overloaded with snow, it had sagged and we were being buried.
There was, for the time being, nothing tragic about the matter.
Anyhow we had better be quick and get out while it was still
easy.
I pushed Yongden, who was asleep. He needed no explanation to understand the situation, which was plain enough! I
only said:
Let us turn slowly and then get up together, pushing the
cloth with our backs.
Ready? .
Gee up!"
We were out of our grave, and none the better for it. Snow
fell and we had no hope of fixing another shelter, for we would
have been buried again before long. N o rest being possible,
it was bctter to walk and keep warm.
We tramped the remainder of the night and all the next
morning without making much progress. T h e soft snow made
walking difficult. Then, when we had reached a higher level,
we began to slip on the miniature glaciers formed by previous
~nowfalls,that had repeatedly melted and frozen again and
which were now treacherously hidden under a thick new layer.
((

...

..

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
A

sa phug

which we discovered a little after nmn was

hailed with joy.
W e established ourselves on its dry ground. Our tent, hung
like a curtain t o some roots above our heads, added to the
protection afforded by the cave. No fuel was available, but we
ate a little tsampa and quenched our thirst with snow which we
melted in our mouths. hen, overtired, after two nights spent
nearly without rest, we slept soundly till the morrow a t dawn.
When we awakened, the snow was still falling. We could
see that it had not ceased the whole night, for it was heaped
much higher in front of our prehistoric refuge and formed a
wall that had kept us warm during the night.
I decided to leave our bags in the sa phug and to attempt
a reconnaissance higher up. We should walk the more easily,
carrying only our mountain staffs. As we were compelled to
retrace our steps to reach the Po villages, we would pick up our
baggage again on our way down. As for thieves, they were
not much to be feared in that deserted land, on the road to a
blocked pass.
W e started. Snow continued t o fall in the same slow, inexorable way, as it had done for more than forty hours. We
found i t forming impassable barriers a t some points where
it had accumulated on old layers already thick. I t was impossible t o follow any regular direction. With great exertion I
reached a ridge from where, through the moving curtain of
the white soft flakes, I faintly discerned summits which looked
like sloping, undulated tablelands. But who knows if the snow
had not leveled the ground and changed their aspect? It is a
common thing, well known t o all alpinists, that mountains
which assume rounded lines in their wintry garb show, in the
summer, sharp spurs and rocky peaks like needles.
I went down with still greater difficulty than I had experienced in climbing up, and endeavoured to reach another spot
from which I hoped to ascertain if a stream joining the main
river issued from what appeared to be a small gorge. 1 wag
pushing forward when I heard a cry behind me. Yongden,
1

The so thug is an earthen cave, the thug phug r cavern in the rock.

158

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
while looking for a short cut, had slipped and fallen into a
ravine. This was not very deep, yet, shut between nearly
vertical banks, its access was anything but easy. When, after
a few minutes, I reached my poor companion, he looked pitiable enough, lying in his ragged lama dress on the white snow
stained with drops of blood.
"Nothing, nothing serious a t all," he said, answering my
questions. "I must have knocked m y head against a rock when
rolling down. T h e skin is a little cut, but there is nothing
more. Do not be afraid. T h e shock only made me giddy."
Then he moved to get up, uttered a moan, whilst he became
pale, shut his eyes, and whispered: "Oh ! m y foot!"
He tried a second time t o stand, but without success.
1L
I cannot," he said, the pain bringing tears t o his eyes. "I
cannot stand."
I felt terrified. H a d he broken his leg?
What should we d o in that case, alone in that wilderness,
without food and the snow growing higher hour after hour?
I immediately took off his boot and examined his foot. Happily, the bones were unbroken. H e had merely sprained his
ankle and somewhat bruised his knee. T h e accident in itself
did not endanger his life or his general health. At least, it
would not have done so in any inhabited place, but out
here.
He understood as well as I did the gravity of our situation
and again endeavoured t o rise. With m y help he succeeded
and remained on one foot, leaning on his staff.
"I shall try to carry YOU," I said. "We must go back t o the
sa phug, and there we will think over the matter."
In spite of my good will and strenuous efforts I was soon
compelled to realize that I lacked the strength necessary t o
carry my adopted son across deep snow, with stones and pits
hidden under it, which made me stumble frequently. Yongden, who had reluctantly obeyed my express command t o let
himself be carried, then endeavoured to proceed, leaning on me
and on his staff, creeping rather than walking, and stopping
every ten minutes. Drops of ~erspirationcaused by the pain-

...

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
ful effort fell from the lama cap which covered his forehead.
It took us hours t o reach the sa phug.
I massaged Yongden's ankle, and bandaged it with his belt.
I could d o no more.
As on the day before, we had no fuel and shivered as we lay
on the frozen ground. T h e snow which we had eaten to
quench our thirst on the road, as well as the icy water brought
from the stream to drink with our meal, had increased the
painful sensation of internal cold that kept us awake.
Yet, had it not been for my concern for my young companion, I should have found a peculiar charm in my situation.
Indeed, that charm was so powerful that it triumphed over my
preoccupations and my physical discomfort. Until late that
night I remained seated, motionless, enjoying the delights of
m y solitude in the absolute silence, the perfect stillness of that
strange white land, sunk in rest, in utter peace.
And the snow still continued to heap itself around us.
I n the morning, when I opened my eyes, the first thing I
saw was Yongden standing on one leg, leaning on his staff,
with his back against the earthen wall of the so phug. His
attitude reminded me of that of certain Chinese spirits in the
Taosse Temples, and he would have been quite comical in any
other circumstances, but tears were in his eyes.
"I cannot walk," he said in despair. "I have already tried
several times, but I cannot stand on my foot."
His ankle was swollen. T h e foot remained twisted out of its
normal position. It was impossible t o start.
We spent the first morning hours in discussion. I thought
of leaving my companion with the baggage and the handful of
tsampa that remained and of trying to reach some village to
ask for help. But Yongden doubted whether anyone would
follow me and take trouble for mere beggars, as we appeared
to be. As for showing money or offering a reward of some
importance, such a thing would prove more dangerous than
anything else. Perhaps my son was too ~essimisticin his
opinion of the Popas, but more serious objections could be
raised against my plan.

160

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
We did not know how f a r the villages were, and which were
the roads that led t o them. TWOdays ago, when coming
down from the Aigni la, we had seen three tracks. All traces
of these would now be hidden beneath deep snow. The river
remained the only guide, and it was not a reliable one. It
could not fail t o flow down to the inhabited region, but we
were not certain that we could follow its course all the way.
Mountain streams frequently enter narrow gorges, while travellers' paths cling to the hills far above them, although they
both meet again miles away.
What if I missed the right path and had t o retrace my steps?
I might wander several days, meet with an accident as my
companion had done, or starve and fail to reach my goal.
1 could not deny that Yongden's apprehensions, gloomy as
they might appear, were well grounded. As for me, I felt
very frightened at the idea of abandoning the lame young man
in that cave, where wolves, bears, snow leopards, or other hungry beasts might attack him a t night, while he could not even
stand on his feet to protect himself.
So time passed while we made plans and rejected them, one
after another. I eventually decided t o follow the valley down
as far as I could, in search of dokpar. I would return by evening. I walked the whole day, seeing two deserted encampments, but not one living being. I was overcome with sorrow
at the thought of the lama who had remained shivering in the
Ja phug. How much better he would have been in one of
those abandoned huts, in which fuel left by the dokpar could
have warmed him! At any rate, I ought to bring some back
with me. But how could I carry it? I had no bag nor any
piece of cloth with me, and only a thick woollen material could
Prevent the cow dung from becoming wet on the way. As I
had no choice, I took off my upper dress made of coarse Thibetan serge, packed the fuel in it, tied the load with my belt,
having fastened it on my back, I started.
It was an exhausting tramp. The snow had not ceased to
and my thin Chinese underdress was but an insufficient
161

M Y JOURNEY T O LHASA
protection against it. Before half a n hour elapsed I felt as if
I were in an icy bath.
Night came while I was still far from the cave. I could not
miss m y way, the stream being there as a guide, but in the
darkness I failed t o find the exact place of the sa phug. Had
I proceeded too high up the valley, or was I still below the
spot where the cave was situated? I realized that I did not
know.
I was on the point of shouting to the lama when I discerned
a small light a little higher up. No doubt Yongden was there
and he had lighted, t o guide me, the roll of taper which we
had in our bag. Such, indeed, was the case.
"I was half dead with fear," he told me, when I joined him.
"I fancied the very worst, when evening came and you did not
return."
T h e fire, and a bowl of hot tea in which we threw a few
pinches of barley flour, cheered us, even though our wretched
plight had grown rather worse. Our food supply was now
reduced t o three or four spoonfuls of trampa, and a little tea
dust. W e were still in ignorance as t o the distance that separated us from the villages, and the path that led directly to
them, and poor Yongden was still unable to walk.
"Do not worry about me, Jetsunma," said the lama as I was
drying myself near the fire. "I know you d o not fear death,
and I d o not fear it, either. I have massaged my foot again
and again to-day and now I will put a compress of hot water
on it. Perhaps I shall be able t o walk t+morrow. If not,
you must go away and try t o save ourse elf. D o not be sorry
on m y account. All that happens comes from some cause.
This accident is a result of my previous deeds. NO gods or
men or anybody but myself are responsible for it, and it would9 )
be useless t o lament about it.
. Now let us sleep. .
And we both slept soundly while the snow still fell and fell,
without ceasing.
T h e next day Yongden could stand. I tied his bag and
mine in one load, which I carried, and, as I had done when
leading him back to the la phug after the accident, I helped the

..

162

.

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
lama to walk. We were progressing a t a snail's pace. When
we again reached the wooded hills I cut a branch a t the end
of which I fixed a short piece of wood and wrapped it round
with our empty provision bags t o form a kind of cushion. This
provided the young man with a primitive crutch and he could
thus proceed without my help.
During my scouting tour the day before I had seen the
valley narrowing in a way which made me fear that we could
not proceed close t o the stream. I had more confidence in a
track which we had seen climbing through the forest when
coming down from the Aigni la. It branched a little before
entering the pasture land and very likely it followed the same
direction as the stream higher up, having been cut through
the jungle because the bottom of the valley was not passable.
We could, no doubt, have found some short cut to i t without going as far as the spot from where we had just noticed
it, but it would have been imprudent t o attempt steep slopes
through the bushes with Yongden who had great difficulty in
walking, even in the trodden tracks.
So we went a long way, knee-deep in the snow, until we
reached the path which was well marked by a neatly cut line
between the trees.
The weather cleared a t that time, and .had it not been for
the difficulty of proceeding in the snow that sixty-five hours
of continual fall had accumulated, and the sorrow I felt a t
seeing the painful efforts made by Yongden, the walk would
have been rather pleasant. W e were now in the midst of fine
alpine scenery which must have been charming in spring and
later summer, after the wet season. Unfortunately, I began to
share something of the physical misery of my friend. T h a t
morning I had noticed a small gap in my boot through which
my right big toe began to appear. Hours of tramping had
transformed the little hole into a wide mouth that opened and
closed a t every step, as if my leg endcd in a strange animal,
feeding on snow as it went. As for my left foot, it did not
fare much better, for the sole of the boot had become almost
entirely unsewn on one side. I began to suffer cruelly. Fresh

163

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
snow is especially dangerous; i t burns and causes sores, Thibetan hillmen, though their skin is rather tough, take great
care t o avoid direct contact with it.
I t was getting late, and we had abandoned all hope of reaching a village that day. No trace of cultivation, no cattle were
seen, and it also seemed that we would find no shelter. For
we had searched in vain for the dokpas' summer huts which,
according to the man who had accompanied us to the top of
the Aigni la, existed on the path going down t o the inhabited
valleys. Covered with snow, they were perhaps not easy to
discover. O r could it be that, unlucky till the end, we had
missed our road? T h a t question formed the topic of the few
words which we exchanged. We had given up asking each
other about our respective efforts and pains. We knew that
we were both struggling with all our might and unable to
relieve each other's suffering. Prattling about it was useless.
Later on, we also dropped, as idle and tiring, the question of
the dokpas' huts or whether we had missed our way.
Night came and snow began to fall again. The sky was
pitch dark, but a dim, dull light, that made me think of Hades,
seemed t o ascend strangely from the white ground and issue
from the snow-clad trees.
White from head t o foot, mind and body benumbed, we
continued a t a limping gait our silent tramp. In that fantastic landscape, we looked like two queer ghosts en route to
answer the call of a Thibetan wizard, or the ragged attendants
of some needy Father Christmas of the wilds.
An association of ideas took possesFather Christmas.
sion of m y thoughts. Were we not in December? Yes. But
the concordance of dates between the Gregorian and the SineThibetan calendar, which I had used for years-was not clear
in my memory. I would consult, when free t o do SO, the
Chinese-foreign calendar I had in my bag.
Gradually Yongden fell behind and I continued to drag
myself aimlessly along. Villages, huts, any kind of shelter,
seemed out of reach. T o camp in the deep snow was impossible. .
Then
what
.?

...

..

...

.. .

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
A sudden shock shook me from my torpor. I had knocked
myself against something hard. I looked. It was the top of
a rustic fence.
A fence! . . . T h e dokpar' summer camp,

...

of which our guide had spoken! W e were on the right way,
and here was a shelter to sleep in!
I could hardly believe it. I laid my hand on the wood and
followed along it as if I feared that fence and huts would
vanish, slipping away from my hoId. I arrived a t the gate of
the enclosure and from there vaguely discerned a large square
cabin and several smaller ones.
I shouted the good news t o the lama:
"Diru! Dim! Kampa chik dug! [Here! Here! There is
a house!]"
Without waiting for him I entered the camp. Next the
men's room was a horse shed. I put my load down under it
and began immediately to clear away the snow heaped high
before the door. Yongden arrived while I was thus busied.
We happily found a good quantity of firewood and dry cow
dung under the shed, and we first lighted a fire there, the room
itself being too dark t o locate the hearth. As soon as the
burning branches gave us some light, we carried them into the
hut, which we found rather large, with a fireplace and, on both
sides of it, boards covering the ground t o sit and lie on. T h e
happiest discovery was another supply of fuel. After the nights
spent in the sa phug, the warmth that spread into the closed
room thrilled voluptuously in me the epicure which is always
lurking in the corner of the most ascetic hearts.
Before sleeping, we drank a bowl of hot water sprinkled
with tsampa, leaving the tea for to-morrow's meal, and Yongden put a hot compress around his foot. I consulted my calendar; it was the 22d of December.
Yongden's foot was less stiff and less painful on the foIlowing morning. But the young man still needed his crutch. And
I was now in trouble, in my turn, for I could not proceed without sewing new soles on my boots. The day before, my toes

165

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
had been burnt and half frozen. Blisters and bleeding sores
made m y gait as lame as that of my son. It would have been
really dangerous to start, practically barefooted, on a new
tramp in the snow.
Nothing in his monastic study had prepared the lama for
a cobbler's work, and he found it very difficult. As for me, I
knew nothing whatever of this craft, and the only help I could
give him was t o unstitch the worn-out piece of leather.
I t was one o'clock when the boots were ready. We hesitated t o start. T h e existence of a dokpas' abandoned summer
camp a t this spot had shown us that we were still far from
the permanently inhabited region. Most likely, travelling at
such a slack pace, we should not reach it before darkness came.
T h a t meant one more tramp a t night and we began to feel the
effects of prolonged fasting on our overtaxed endurance. On
the other hand, t o rest the remainder of the day was to increase
the length of our starvation. The choice between these equally
unenjoyable alternatives was hard. The bright fire tempted us;
we decided in favour of the warm shelter during the night
and a very early start before daybreak.
T h e weather did not clear; it snowed without interruption.
A little before sunset, Yongden, who wished to ascertain if
the condition of his sprained ankled had improved, went to
another dokpas' enclosure situated in the same clearing, and
told me that he had seen from there the path we would follow
on the morrow.
T h e fire was revived long before daybreak. We turned our
tea bag inside out and shook it over the kettle so that the
last atom of tea dust would fall into the boiling water. Then,
after a brief, purely liquid breakfast, we proceeded straight to
the place Yongden had marked the day before. It was still
dark and snow fell heavily. The path seemed to be n u rower than it had been above; but Thibetan tracks grow as
the forest makes them, and the forest is a capricious roadbuilder.
We walked painfully until nearly noon, and then, to our

166

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
dismay, we realized that we were going in a wrong direction.
We ran into thickets and steep slopes, with n o more traces
of a path. Had we wandered after having started in the
right direction? I doubted it. Most likely we had been wrong
from the beginning, entering one of those trails on which cattle roam in the hills, of which a number are always t o be
found near pasture grounds. Be that as i t may, we could but
retrace our steps t o the dokpas' encampment. Any attempt to
look for the track from our present position would but lead us
still farther astray.
We had not gone far. Neither the lama, who still used his
crutch, nor I with m y sorely bleeding feet, could progress
quickly. But far or near, it was the time needed to reach
our starting-point that was of importance. T h e consequence
of such a mistake for people who had already fasted three days
was really serious.
We did not always find our tracks easily. T h e snow had
partly effaced them, and Yongden had frequently t o rest, which
caused more delay.
The ranges which we were crossing were covered with forests
of holly-oak trees, and reminded me once more of Christmas.
It was Christmas Eve, and I pictured the joyful agitation of
SO many in Western lands, and the sorrow of too many others
who do not even receive "the crumbs which fall from the rich
man's table." How f a r I was from all these things, in that
solitary woods! 1 broke a small branch of holly-oak, meaning
to give it, later on, t o a friend of mine, if I escaped from these
mountains and that snow which seemed determined to keep me.
But SO unexpectedly d o things happen, that when I brought
the holly of the virgin P o forest to the Western land, the man
for whom it was meant had departed for a still more mysterious
land than that of the Popas.
A bowl of hot water was again the only refreshment we
could get when we arrived at the dokpar' hut. I wanted t o go
scouting immediately, for we ought a t any rate t o avoid another
mistake the next day. We both began to feel very giddy. We

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
heard strange sounds of bells; and although we did not suffer
many pangs of hunger, it was certain that unless we got some
food before long, we should lack the strength necessary to reach
the villages.
Yongden insisted on going himself to look for the road, while
I rested near the fire. I yielded t o his kind entreaties, and
the poor fellow started again over the snow, his staff in one
hand and his crutch under the other arm.
Time passed. T h e lack of provisions dispensed with the
trouble of cooking. I had but to fill the kettle with snow, to
melt it and boil the water. Then I could lie down and think!
I fancied a few of m y acquaintances in my place. I saw
some of them swearing a t God, the devil, their companions,
and themselves. I saw others weeping and praying on their
knees. Most of them, I know, would have blamed my quietness and that of my young companion. . . A p2li verse sung
sweetly in my memory:

.

"Happy indeed we live, among the anxious unanxious.

. . ."

I t was nearly dark when Yongden returned. This time he
said that there could be no mistake. H e had but faintly seen
a trail the day before and had taken it for the main path.
Darkness and snow, when we had started, had prevented us
from discovering the mistake, which was really an absurd one,
for the true track, although its entrance was hidden by fir
trees scattered all around the clearing, was not very difficult to
find. Nevertheless, he had followed it for quite a long time.
There was n o need to worry about the matter. It was really the
right one.
T h e news was most comforting, but I did not like the look
of the young man. He was pale, with glowing and feverish
eyes. He drank two bowls of hot water and immediately fell
asleep.
1 remained for a while watching him. He was restless and
from time t o time he moaned. Gradually, however, he became
calmer and I closed my eyes to sleep.
A noise of steps on the boards and a confused muttering

168

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
awakened me. The dim light of the smouldering embers disclosed the lama tottering toward the door, his staff in his hand.
Where was he going? I n no time I was on my feet.
"What is the matter with you?" I asked. "Are you ill?"
heaping up," he answered with
"Snow is heaping up
a strange voice, as if dreaming. "We sleep here, and it falls.
. . . Let us start.
It will be too late. . . 9,
He was only half conscious and undoubtedly under the infiuence of a nightmare. I tried t o calm him, t o persuade him to
lie down again. He did not appear t o understand, and was
lost in his own idea. H e wanted to start. I could see that
he was raving. His hand was burning with fever. It was the
result of the long tramps in the snow, the fasting, and the pain
caused by the sprained ankle.
With sudden violence he reached the door and opened it.
"Look," he said, "it snows !"
Heavy snow was falling. A new white mound could be seen
blocking the passage which we had cleared several times since
we had first arrived a t the camp. A draught of cold air blew
into the hut.
Do not stay here," I commanded the lama. "You are ill.
The cold will make you worse!"
t(
We must start, start a t once," he repeated obstinately, and,
trying to drag me away, he cried: "You will die, Jetsunma!
Come quick!
Come!"
I gave him a push, kicked the door shut, and endeavoured
again to make him lie down near the fire, in spite of his struggles. Fever and the wild idea of saving my life had increased
the natural strength of the sturdy young fellow. He staggered
on his bad foot and did not appear t o feel the pain.
What would happen if he succeeded in breaking out? I
remembered, terrified, that the clearing ended in a precipice
only a few feet away.
I succeeded in throwing a few branches on the fire, and
the sudden bright light broke the trend of Yongden's feverish
vagaries.

...

...

((

...

.

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA

.

..

"What? . . W h a t ?
." he said, looking around. And he
n o longer resisted my efforts to make him lie down.
I made a big fire and placed some fresh snow on the young
man's head. H e then fell asleep again, but I dared not
my watch and remained seated the rest of the night.
Did I doze and dream?
I heard the feeble jingling of
a bell, lower down the hill. Who could be travelling in that
snow, and a t that hour!
I listened, fearing that some one
might enter, but after a time the jingling died away.
Such was my Christmas Eve in that land of Po.
When d a y broke I did not dare t o awaken my companion.
Sleep is a powerful medicine and I placed more faith in it
than in the few tabloids I carried with me.
It was already late when he opened his eyes. I saw at once
that he was better. He had but a faint remembrance of what
had happened in the night, and thought it was altogether a
dream. We prepared the hot water that once more constituted
our breakfast.
H a d we had only a little butter or one or two pinches of
trampa to throw in it, we might have felt a trifle refreshed,
but that plain water, even boiling hot, was nothing of a
cordial.
As I expressed m y feelings aloud, ending jocularly with the
wish that some compassionate mountain god might bring us
even the smallest piece of butter or fat, Yongden looked at me
in a peculiar way.
' W h a t is the matter?" I asked.
"Well," he replied, hesitatingly, 6C.if you were not too particular about the fat, I might be the mountain god."
"What d o you mean
.?"
H e laughed.
"You are somewhat Thibetan in your ways, but perhaps
not enough t o d o what a true Thibetan, in your case, would
97
do.
"Go on. Have you something left in your bag . 7''
"Yes," he answered. "A bit of bacon with which I rub the
soles of our boots to keep them waterproof, and some bits of

...
...

...

...

.

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
skin which were left from the new soles I cut the day before
yesterday."
"Throw them all in the pot and add a little salt if there is
any left," I ordered, the soul of a true Thibetan arising in me.
He did so, and half an hour later we were tasting a turbid
beverage whose flavour was a matter open to discussion. But
to a certain extent it satisfied the craving of our empty
stomachs.
Christmas merriment continued.
The weather cleared and the sun appeared shyly soon after
we had left the dokpas' camp. As we descended we found the
snow less deep. T h e path continued through thick forests,
and we met another dokpas' encampment, which was not a
good omen for the nearness of our goal. A little below it, we
crossed a third feeder of the river Po, a small torrent rushing
down from the side of the Gotza la. W e also saw the path
which led t o the pass itself.
Neither villages nor fields nor anything that could suggest
the neighbourhood of human habitations could yet be disWas our fast t o
covered. Evening would come soon.
continue ?
Below the path, in a narrow clearing, I noticed a small h u t
which I pointed out t o Yongden. Would it be wise t o stop
there? We had just time t o collect some wood before darkness had set in beneath the big trees. T o mention food was
useless. T h a t topic seemed as if it were t o become forever
foreign to us and we wire t o live like the gods of the ethereal
regions, feeding on scents and pure air. We grew bewildered.
We should not reach a village that day.
On approaching the hut, we were most astonished t o see a
man standing a t its door. This was our first meeting with a
Pops in his own land, and the strange stories about robbers
and cannibals that are current all over Thibet about that

...

' One must understand that it is a soft skin that has undergone no
Preparation whatever.

M Y JOURNEY T O LHASA
dreaded tribe, rose immediately in our memories. Yet we did
not show any sign of our thoughts. I simply asked, politely:
"Kusho [sir], may we be allowed to enter to make a fire?"
"Come in," answered the Popa briefly.
W e went down the road, crossed the clearing, and our astonishment became still greater when we saw about a dozen men
seated inside the cabin around a fire. What could they be
doing in the midst of the forest?
W e were politely welcomed. T h e men manifested extreme
surprise and looked a t one another with an air of mystery
when they heard that we had crossed the Aigni la. Yongden
deemed it useless t o tell them about our supplementary promenade in the other valley, so that they thought we had come
straight down from that pass.
"Certainly," they said, "you both have got powerful Po Zha
and Mo Zha.' Without their help you would have perished in
the snow, for the pass is now completely blocked."
T h e special heavenly protection which we enjoyed impressed
the Popas in our favour. A place of honour was given to the
lama next the fire, and we were invited to produce our bowls
for some tea, while the men apologized for the lack of tsampa
to eat with it. They had just finished their meal when we
arrived. Even without tsampa, the generously buttered tea
refreshed us delightfully.
After some more enquiries about our country and our pilgrimages, one who appeared t o be a personage of superior rank
amongst the other Popas asked the lama if he knew the art
of mor; and all of them appeared greatly leased when he
answered that he did.
What followed was first-rate material for a novelist, and at
the same time threw some light on a ~icturesqueand interesting side of Thibetan home politics.
As nothing, or but very little, is known, in the West, about
the true condition of Thibet, a few explanations are needed
here to make the matter understood.
I t is an error to fancy Thibet as a homogeneous whole under

' Gods
172

of the paternal and maternal ancestore.

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
a central government. Outside of the U and Tsang provinces,
the various tribes have always lived in independence under a
number of petty rulers who were styled gyalpos (kings). During the Chinese suzerainty the imperial officials did not interfere much with these local customs, but since they have been
driven away by his troops, the Lhasa ruler has undertaken to
bring under his direct authority the whole of the Thibetan
territory which has escaped Chinese control.
Those tribes who have greeted the departure of the Chinese
officials as meaning entire freedom for them d o not feel in the
least inclined to accept as governors men from Lhasa who lack
the prestige of the Chinese literati, representatives of the great
Chinese Emperor, who is, according t o lamaist belief, an incarnation of the God of Knowledge and Wisdom: Janpeyon!'
The Dalai lama is worshipped by them as a spiritually exalted
personality only, and though some of them may even go as
far as to bow reverently to him from a distance, they strongly
resent the appointment of governors or other dignitaries t o
rule over them, and especially their power t o tax them and
carry away to Lhasa the product of their levies.
So, the inhabitants of Chos Zong had simply stoned their
governor appointed from the capital, and besieged him in his
zong,where he had run in haste for shelter.
The enraged official had, however, been able t o flee a t night
from Chos Zong and t o dispatch secretly a messenger t o ask
help from the Kalon lama, a kind of Viceroy reigning over
eastern Thibet, whose seat is a t Chiamdo. T h e men of Chos
Zong had in their turn learned of the departure of the messenger, and fearing that on the order of the Kalon lama soldiers
might be dispatched t o their country on a punitive expedition,
they had sent some of their friends to overtake the messenger,
seize the letter he carried, and "suppress" its bearer.
Our hosts were notabilities of the ~ r o u dcity which had
stoned the alien governor. There was no question of canniBetter known in the West under his Sanskrit name of Maiijushri, a
Bodhisatva of the Mahayanist Buddhism, very likely a deified hero.

173

M Y J O U R N E Y .TO L H A S A
balism or of robbery; the lama was merely required to tell
whether the messenger would be caught.
T h e joke this time had a serious side. I t might prove dangerous for the seer if his oracle turned out to be wrong. The
giant fellows seated around the fire were no doubt not easy to
manage when irritated. M y companion and I are both short
of stature, and we looked amongst them like "Tom Thumb"
of the nursery tales, in the ogre's den. But in this case the
ogres numbered fourteen, and although we could almost feel
confident that they did not eat the flesh of lost travellers, they
could certainly not be fooled with impunity.
T h e lama asked them many questions about the roads which
the ponpo's messenger might have followed in order to leave
the country, and thus I secured a good deal of geographical
information. W e also learned that a man had been dispatched
toward the Aigni la, but had turned back, and this explained
the faint jingling of a horse's bell that I had heard before
daybreak. T h e man had deemed it useless to proceed farther,
realizing b y the quantity of snow already heaped up at that
level that the pass must be completely blocked. Therefore
the astonishment of the Popas had been all the greater when
they had seen us coming from the other side of th; range.
T h e y enquired again and again if we had seen nobody or no
traces of steps. But we had truly seen neither, and certainly
the ponpo's messenger had not taken that road.
After a good deal of muttering and gesticulation which were
watched with deep attention by the interested spectators, the
lama declared something to this effect: "If your men run faster
than the ponpo'~ messenger they will catch him." But of course
this was said in oracular style, wrapped in a quantity of solemn
words and was really very impressive.
What prompted me, then?
I could not say. The romance of that political intrigue of the wilds, these William
Tells of an unexplored land, plotting in the heart of the forest
against a Gessler from Lhasa, may have tempted me and awakened the desire to play a part in the drama. Be that a3 it

...

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
may, in the silence which followed the prophecy of Yongden,
I pronounced, as if speaking for myself:
"No harm will be done. All will end well."
The fourteen conspirators and my astonished companion
gazed at me dumfounded.
what?
What does she say?" they asked
"What?
after a while. "Is she a parno?" l
"Not exactly," answered Yongden. "My father was a black
nagspa: and she was his initiated consort."
indeed! . . ." replied some of the Popas.
"Indeed!
Then, huddling themselves closer together, t o give me room
near the fire, they invited me t o approach.
~ must feel
"Do not stay in that corner, Sangs Y ~ r n .You
cold. .
We are sorry that you have come too late to share
our meal. .
So, truly, all that trouble will end well for US?"
"Yakpo chung yong [Good will arise]," I answered, then
gazed into the fire, apparently sunk in profound thought.
The Popas did not feel very comfortable. I could see it.
They rejoiced over the favourable oracles, but the company of
the black nagspa's yum in the middle of a forest after sunset
seemed to them rather disturbing. So they took leave, requesting the lama to say that they had all gone home, if some one
should come and ask about them.
The men had told us that we were not far from a village
called Cholog, but what appeared a short distance to these
sturdy hillmen might be a long one for tired, lame, and exhausted people like ourselves. W e had drunk a quantity of
buttered tea and had received a small piece of butter and a
handful of tea, and these secured us a liquid breakfast for the
morrow. It was better to spend the night under shelter.
We may be certain, I told Yongden, that these Popas will

...

...

...

..

..

A woman who, during mediumistic trances, is possessed by a god or a
demon who speaks through her mouth. If the medium is male he is called
Paw.

Nagspa: A knower o f the secret spell, a dreaded kind of sorcerer.
mother." A polite title to addresa the mystic consort
and helper of a magician or any lama belonging to a Tantric sect.

' Literally, "secret

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
not come back t o rob US. They are too busy with their own
business, and, moreover, they fear me.
T h e young man agreed, but he did not think that the hut
was a safe place in which t o spend the night. The followers of
the pdnpo may have learned, he said, that his enemies have
met here, and come a t night t o take them by surprise and kill
them. T h e y could mistake us for those who had stoned their
master. W e risked getting bullets through the door or being
dragged before an official to explain who we were, or having
t o answer countless other embarrassing questions.
I could not deny that he was right t o a great extent. But
it was already dark beneath the trees, and, not being acquainted
with the path, we could easily have met with an accident of
the same kind as that from which Yongden was still suffering.
As for being fired a t or arrested, this could as well happen
t o us when tramping a t night in the forest as in the hut. I
would stay!
Once we had decided to stop there, Yongden went into the
forest t o cut wood. I gathered as much as was lying about
near the cabin, and when I had finished I sat near the fire.
All of a sudden, without any noise, a head appeared over the
top of the door, which closed only about three-quarters of the
entrance.
A man looked hurriedly into the hut and pronounced a few
words which I did not understand. He did not give me time
to ask him t o repeat them, and disappeared while I shouted, so
that he might hear it, what the lama had been requested to say:
"They are all gone!"
Those could not be, it seemed t o me, very compromising
words, and if some one were looking for the conspiring Popa9
they would not come to trouble us.
Anyhow, the romance was to continue a t the expense of our
repose. A little later we heard a noise in the bushes, step3
on the fallen leaves, dry twigs broken under the feet of an
invisible wanderer.
Yongden called from the door: "Arau! Arau! [comrade]
you may come."

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
But no one appeared. I felt inclined to believe that wild
animals were roaming about, and we threw some stones in the
direction where the noise was coming from, but this did not
stop it in the least. This confirmed Yongden in his opinion
that human beings and not beasts were there.
However, as they did not attack us, we left them t o their
business and went back into the hut. W e barricaded ourselves
as well as we could, covered the fire, and lay in a corner where
we could not be easily seen or fired a t through the gap in the
top of the door. T h a t was all that we could do; and in whatever case, when one has done one's best, worries of any kind
are superfluous and unwise.
Thus reflecting, we fell asleep and slept so soundly that the
sun was already high in the heavens when we awakened.
We drank a bowl of tea with pleasure, but my tired body
cried out for some solid food. This was the sixth day of our
fast, and, without appearing too gluttonous, I can confess that
we were hungry!
Cholog, the first village we were t o come upon, was not so
near to the hut as the conspirators had told us the day before.
We reached it a t noon.
We had a t last arrived amongst these Popas, heroes of so
many strange tales, about whom Yongden and I had spoken
for years. Up till now all had gone well, and we were full of
confidence in the future.
The village was situated in a narrow valley surrounded by
alpine scenery and partly covered with snow. Neither its
wooden cottages nor the few people visible had anything especially threatening about them.
I felt really safe as to my disguise, after having passed these
huge mountain ranges. N o one would ever think that a foreign
woman had dared to venture on that road. N o one would
ever suspect the pilgrim tramping over these distant tracks
On which a white traveller was never seen. This feeling of
security was a great comfort and allowed me t o enjoy the
charm of my adventure more freely.

177

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
We could not begin our wanderings in the land of Po in a
better way than by going round a-begging. It was in accordance both with our programme and our present needs. We
therefore knocked a t the door of the first cottage we found on
our road.
When we answered the usual question, "Whence have you
come?" by saying that we had just crossed the Aigni la, the
woman who had interrogated us burst into loud exclamations
which attracted a few neighbours. How could we have come
through the snow? It was a real wonder! And again the
unquestionable protection of our Po lha and Mo lha came
forward.
W e were invited t o sit down and produce our bowls, which
were filled with hot soup.
Was it good, was it bad? I could not say. I only felt the
inner animal joy of the starving man a t his first contact with
food, after a long fast. It seemed to me that beings rushed
up from the depth of my body toward my mouth to feed upon
the thick mixture of trampa, water, curd, and turnips that I
swallowed eagerly. Other good people gave us tsampa and
a little butter, and taking our bags in hand we went through
the village to continue our begging. We quickly gathered a
quantity of tsampa sufficient for two days. As we were now
in an inhabited country, we could renew our supplies, and did
not need t o load ourselves with heavy bags. Thus we left
Cholog and followed the river downwards.
We had left the village, when a strange idea took root in my
brain. T h a t soup which we had eaten-the woman had taken
it out of a pot standing in a corner behind an open door*
. Why had that earthen pot been put in such a place?
Could it be? .
No. I revolted a t the mere thought of itAnd yet
in a corner
behind the door. .
I turned toward my companion.
"GeZong lay," I said, very politely. "Methinks we have
eaten the dog's soup."

..

...

1

..

Honourable monk.

178

...

.-

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
The lama, who was enjoying the pleasant sensation of excellent digestion, started:
What, dog's soup!"
"What do you say?
I explained t o him calmly the particulars on which my suspicion was grounded. H e turned pale, the expression of his
face reminding me of those one sees among the passengers on a
steamer's decks i n rough weather.
Then, amongst the details of our meal, I remembered that
to fill our bowls our benefactress had dipped in the soup a ladle
which was hanging near the hearth, with the kitchen utensils.
A Thibetan would never touch the dog's soup with a ladle
used in cooking. I could therefore be certain that the soup
was men's food, and I reassured the trembling lama.
"What a fright you have given me!" he said, laughing.
'What a fool you are!" I answered. "Men's or dog's, the
soup refreshed you. Why make yourself unhappy and sick
over a mere idea?"
"I fear," replied Yongden, "that under your hermit masters'
guidance you have made too much progress in the thul shugr.'
In the future I shall carefully examine the contents of our
pot when you make our broth."
"I hope I shall not have t o fill it again with boot-leather
broth as you have done."
The good soup that I had s o unjustly calumniated kept us
jolly.
We were proceeding in that gay mood when we saw three
well-dressed and handsome men coming toward us across the
fields. Long hair falling freely on their shoulders, f u r robes,
cloth vests in shades of warm green and dark red, beautiful
swords with jewelled sheaths stuck in their belts, they looked
vaguely like those knights of yore one sees in old paintings.
The mystic landscape of fir trees in the background, the clear
river, and the narrow path that wound through the fields
added still more to the impression. It made me think of the
Memling paintings I had seen in my youth in Belgian galleries.

...

1

An ascetic and philosophic doctrine whose adepts practise complete
indifference in all respects.

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
T h e y politely requested the lama to make some m o ~about
the very same affair on which he had already been consulted the day before, in the forest. T h e men sent after the
Governor's messenger had not yet come back. Had they
caught him, or not! It appeared that the whole country felt
greatly concerned about the matter. Yongden told them that
the gods had already been consulted and that it was neither
fit nor prudent to trouble them again. Still, he could say that,
according t o his previous mo, all things would end well. The
two knights seemed satisfied, and with a most graceful dignity,
went back to their houses near by.
A few minutes later a villager passed us and stopped my
companion t o ask a mo about some private business; and, as
the latter satisfied him, a lama rode by on a horse and, having
alighted, requested the same kind ofices from his humble
pedestrian colleague.
..Human credulity, b e it in the East or in the West, has no
limits. I n India, the Brahmins have for centuries kept their
countrymen t o the opinion that offering presents to those belonging t o their caste, and feeding them, was a highly meritorious religious work. Nowadays this cunning old device has
taken in its snare the very ones who invented it, and on various occasions Brahmins are compelled by the custom to give
gifts t o other Brahmins. I n the same way, a Thibetan lama,
adept in ritual, cannot ~ e r f o r mthe magic rites for his own
benefit and must rely on the well-remunerated services of a
colleague.
Hermits (Gompchen) alone can escape. Some of them have
completely renounced all religious ceremonies, whereas others
condescend t o oblige the believers who beg their help, but
never perform any rites on their own behalf, or ask anyone
else to d o so.
T h e views of these lonely ascetics and the teachings they
impart to those whom they take as disciples are interesting in
many respects, and may be a revelation to those who consider
Thibet a land of benighted savages. But to return to Yongden, I must say that although they are more numerous and
180

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
more powerful, as members of the State Church, the lamas who
belong to the "Yellow Cap" sects acknowledge the superiority
of their brethren in the various "Red Cap" sects in all questions more or less connected with magic and occult science.
Humble and dirty as it was, my companion's red hat enjoyed
much success.
A contribution of tsampa and butter entered our bags as
a result of the delivery of these various oracles. Truly the
beginning of our adventure in the country of the dreaded Popas
was quite encouraging.
We soon entered a narrow, dark gorge, and being tempted
by the provisions we carried, we thought of taking a rest for
a while, and eating some barley flour and butter. We were
already seated on the trunk of a fallen tree when a man passed
and advised us t o proceed quickly because we were still a long
way from the nearest village and the road was anything but
safe. Robbers, he said, roamed in the region even during the
day and were much more to be feared after dark.
The news agreed with what we had been told about P o yul. W e
started immediately, our revolvers in readiness under our dresses.
The sun had set when we reached the end of the gorge.
There three wide valleys opened and their very large intersection was entirely cultivated. Farms were seen here and
there, and a cluster of houses forming a hamlet. The valley
on the opposite side of the river led t o Chos Zong, where there
is an important lamasery, the very place where the Lhasa
mandate had been stoned.
We crossed a bridge, well-built, although it had no breastwork, and were allowed to spend the night in the mill room of
a small isolated farm which was extremely clean. As a rule,
the place where grain is ground is the cleanest in a Thibetan
house, and very often only the inmates are allowed to enter
it, for fear lest it be defiled by strangers.'

' Professional beggars are more o r less considered as impure, although
the system o f castes does not really exist in Thibet. A s f o r trn~~cllers,
tllcg may, so think the Thibetans, have come into touch with ilnpure
objects or be accompanied by evil spirits.
181

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
Our hosts sent us a few pieces of dry cow dung to light a
fire, but refused to give or even to sell us enough fuel to cook
a meal. I went outside, along the river and in the fields,
gathering whatever branches I could find. When I came back,
Yongden had some visitors, and the question of the Governor, his messenger, the men sent after him, etc., was once
more the topic.
Other people appeared later on, and requested from'our host
a contribution in grain to feed a party of armed Popas who
were mustering t o go somewhere-we were not admitted into
confidence as t o their destination. It looked as if the country
were rising. T h e next morning some more armed fellows came
t o the lama for mos about the Governor, who had succeeded in
fleeing from Chos Zong and had taken refuge in another lamasery a t Sung Zong.
Spies of both parties were certainly wandering through the
country, such being the Thibetan custom. We might be taken
for spies ourselves, and get into trouble. We therefore recrossed the river, and strode away, endeavouring to put Sung
Zong behind us as soon as possible.
Pilgrims returning from the holy Pemakoichen mountains
called us to drink tea on the road and made us a little present.
We again crossed the Polung tsangpo and proceeding now on
its right bank, we entered a narrow gorge where I met with a
peculiar accident. I merely knocked my toes against a stone
sticking out of the ground and did not hurt them, but felt
such terrible pain in the bowels that I nearly fainted. I remained lying on the ground for quite a long time, incapable of
standing, and as a comical element was never absent in even
our most unpleasant adventures, Yongden did not dare to
throw water on my face when he saw that I was fainting, lest
it should remove the accumulated dirt and special "make-up"
that constituted a part of my disguise.
T h e enthusiastic opinion which we formed of the Popas,
after our first meeting with them, did not last more than a
single day.

182

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
That evening on emerging from a gorge we saw the valley
suddenly widen. A number of farms were scattered over the
fields, and near the road we noticed two or three half-ruined
and abandoned houses. I proposed to Yongden that we stay
for the night in one of these tumble-down habitations, but he
objected, with reason, that the fire which we should light would
attract the attention of the villagers, and that undesirable visitors might call on us.
As we thought it imprudent to spend the night alone in the
vicinity of the village, we had t o beg shelter somewhere, and
we thus made a real acquaintance with the Popas' hospitality.
At the first farm a young shepherd left his flocks as soon
as he caught sight of us, and ran as for his life, to inform the
inmates of the house that arjopas were coming. Instantly
doors and windows were closed and no one answered when
we called and shouted outside. All had been done so quickly
and so artlessly that it was really amusing. I nearly laughed
aloud, but as such gaiety would not have fitted my disguise, I
endeavoured to appear sad whilst proceeding t o another farm.
"We were wrong," said Yongden, "to go to such a small
cottage. Poor people have none too much for themselves, and
fear the beggars because they have nothing t o give. On the
other hand, they d o not like t o refuse alms to a lama pilgrim,
for it is a bad deed, so they cleverly manage t o avoid seeing
him. Did you not notice that they fastened the door and the
blinds without looking outside? They may even have made a
pretence of not hearing me when I shouted a t them, or they
may have said amongst themselves: 'Here is one of those
rascals who imitate the lama's way of begging to deceive householders.' So the cunning ones are blameless, since they pretend not to know that a lama was a t their door. What a wonderful trick!
"Let us go to a rich farm!"
At the cltukpo's (rich man) house no one shut the doors,
but five big dogs were allowed to attack us freely. While I
worked hard with my iron-spiked staff to keep the beasts away,

...

183

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
Yongden endeavoured to express his request loudly enough to
be heard above the furious barking of animals. Nobody answered a t first. Then a young woman appeared on the flat roof
and asked us many questions, without ordering the dogs to
leave us. Yongden answered with angelic patience, while I
continued the fight around him. Her curiosity satified, the
woman retired inside the upper-story apartment to report to
the nepo about us and our request. This lasted another good
ten minutes, and finally she came back bringing a negative answer. W e were not allowed to enter the house!
Thibetans, like many other people, are very much like sheep.
T h e traveller may be certain that if he is refused hospitality by
one farmer, all the other villagers who may happen to know it
will close their doors t o him. W e had not the least chance
of success in the vicinity of the owner of the ferocious dogs.
W e went away, already resigned to walking a few more
hours, and if we did not come t o any village on our way, to
sleep hidden in the woods. But the last house a t the end of the
cultivated area happened t o present a good appearance. Just
as we passed, a woman opened the door of the cattle pen to
let the cows in. Yongden begged that we might be allowed
t o stay inside the farm until the next morning. As he was
speaking with her, another woman appeared a t a window, and
he repeated his request.
T h e answer was that the permission of the master of the
house was needed, and that she would ask him.
After a while, the same woman came down with a plate of
tsampa, sent by the nepo, who did not wish to receive us.
"We d o not ask trompa," explained Yongden. "We only
want netsang.l W e will eat our own food and trouble nobody
for alms. Let us only come inside."
T h e woman returned upstairs with the flour, and very probably the fact that we had refused it inclined the nepo to believe in our respectability. We were admitted into a n exceedingly clean and well-built room such as I have seen only in the
dwellings of quite upper-class Thibetans. h servant lighted

' Hospitality,
184

a

place in which to sleep.

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
the fire and gave us a plentiful supply of wood. Our opinion
of the Popas, which had fallen very low after the experiences
at the other farms, rose a little. W e cooked some soup, and
while eating it we had an interesting talk about the economical
and political conditions of the country with a man who belonged
to another part of Thibet, but who had settled in Po yul. T h e
nepo came also with several women, and Yongden had t o comply with the usual requests for mos.
One of the women noticed a turquoise which the lama had
hung to the rosary he wore around his neck. Like coral and
pearl, turquoise is a very prized part of Thibetan jewellery.
But what goes under the name of yu (turquoise) in Thibet is
seldom genuine. It is mostly polished malachite, or even some
gross imitation made in China. T h e stone in Yongden's rosary
was of a pretty colour. It greatly leased the women, who
examined it again and again. Finally one of them wished t o
buy it, but with the cunning of peasants in every country,
she tried t o take advantage of our apparent needy condition
to acquire it practically for nothing, and her friends did their
utmost to help her.
I t was quite amusing t o hear them talking about imaginary
dangers, thieves along the road which we were t o follow, and
how food would be more useful to poor travellers than a useless precious stone. There was no one amongst them who
did not recognise the spiritual superiority of an ordained lama.
They would not have failed to ask his services in case of illness,
death, or epidemic among the cattle. They would have called
on him to bless the harvest or the house, and t o make mos,
but, nevertheless, they endeavoured, with all the cleverness
they possessed, to cheat the poor holy one delivered by Fateas they believed-into their hands.
The lama refused t o accept the price offered, and as I knew
that he had inherited some really fine turquoises on his father's
death, I thought that this was one of them which he was
carrying with him.
Was it the talk about robbers, or the many mor he had made,
or other causes that troubled Yongden's sleep?

185

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
I was suddenly awakened in the night by a rather loud
exclamation.
"Where is the gun?" said the lama. 'They have taken my
gun !" and some incomprehensible muttering followed.
A t first I did not realise that he was dreaming aloud. 1
quickly extmded my hand toward the two revolvers which
we had, as usual, hidden with our money under the tent
spread over us as a blanket in Thibetan fashion. (I have already said that poor Thibetan travellers do not undress to
sleep.) T h e covering allowed us t o part with our heavy belts
containing the money. When we thought it unsafe to use it
for fear that so much cloth might awake our hosts' cupidity
and thus endanger our safety, we were compelled t o keep these
belts, as well as our arms, under our dresses. Their weight on
the breast during a whole night was, I need scarcely say, most
tiring and unpleasant. It often prevented me from sleeping.
Our revolvers and belts were there, but the young man continued to speak aloud.
There were two people beside ourselves in the room: the
strange man and his Po wife. Our companions might awake,
throw a piece of resinous wood on the fire to get a light to see
what was the matter. Even if convinced that the lama was
dreaming, they might persuade themselves that his dream had
roots in something real and that we were really hiding a gun.
Knowing the passion of all Thibetans for firearms, 1 was
afraid that anything might happen if our hosts happened to
suspect that we owned one. To what extreme means would
they not go to secure i t ?
I gently pushed the dreamer. B u t i t was no use; he continued to twaddle about the gun. I then crawled close to
him and shook him, whispering in his ear to be quiet. The
poor fellow was tired and enjoyed the sound sleep of youth*
H e did not awake, although he opened his eyes. I gave him
a slap. I blew on his face. I did not known what to do to
silence him! At last he turned on one side and ceased hi8
muttering. Already our companions moved in their corner*
I took our belts and the revolvers, and buckled them all hastily

186

M Y JOURNEY TO L H A S A
under my dress, so that no sign of them could be seen if some
one made a light and came over to us to enquire about the
meaning of the noise.
I did not dare t o sleep again, and watched Yongden till a
little before daybreak, when he awakened.
While we were drinking our morning tea, two women came
again to try t o buy the turquoise, and after we had taken
leave and were proceeding on our way, the one who wanted
it ran after the lama with a small piece of butter and some
tsampa. Still thinking that the yu was one of his genuine
stones, I scoffed a t the silly female who believed that she could
acquire a beautiful stone a t such small expense. B u t in order
to prevent any of her male relatives or friends from following
us with the desire of getting the precious jewel still cheaper,
I added: "My son is a pure gelong. He forgets too often that
his father was a nagspa, as his elder brother still is in our
country. T h a t y u has been hung on his father's tiitreng,' and
anyone who is not connected with the ngags will find t o his cost
the result of wearing it. All but an initiated ?tagspa, or a
nagspa's near relative, is nu mi thet "0 it, and would die if
he became its owner."
This was sufficient t c cool the coquettish person. She understood that the turquoise was definitely out of her reach. Perhaps she considered herself lucky to have been informed of
the danger of wearing it. Perhaps, a t the bottom of her heart,
she regretted the niggardliness which had prevented her from
acquiring it, when she could have hung the sky-blue stone a t
her ear or on her neck without suspecting its origin.
She went silently away, carrying back with her the butter
and the tsampa.
Why should you sell your turquoise?" I asked Yongden.
"We do not need money. It is better t o keep it and give it,
later on, t o one of your relatives."
((

' A rosary made of 108 small disks of bones taken from 108 different
human skulls.
' A peculiar cxprcssion meaning that one is not worthy of the object
of \~-llich he nlnkes use, and that he cannot bear its special power or
dignity.

187

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
"They d o not care for such yuJJ'he answered, laughingly.
They d o not like turquoise?"
"What?
"Yes, they d o . genuine ones."
$9'
"But this .
"It is an imitation from China. T h e tsampa and butter
would have been a good price for it."
And I had taken it as genuine, as, of course, had the woman
a t the farm! Anyhow, that kind of fun was not to be repeated.
It would have been too absurd to get into trouble with robbers,
and be killed for a supposed precious stone of which one could
purchase about a pound for less than twenty cents. The turquoise was therefore removed from the rosary.

...
. .
...

CHAPTER VI

H

AVING crossed a dense forest, we reached the neighbourhood of Sung Zong a few days later.
A reading of the whole Khagyur had taken place in a village, at the conclusion of which the 108 big volumes, loaded
on yaks, were taken back to the monastery by a few country
folk. Amongst these an old woman ambled leisurely, walking
at a slack pace before her hairy bullock, which enjoyed an
occasional graze. T h e good grandmother chatted with us, and
seeing that I was eating dry tsampa as I went along, she produced a piece of bread out of her amphagl and gave it t o me.
Who could tell in what strange and dirty places that bread
had been? Of course, I could not refuse it, and I was even
compelled to make a pretence of eating it. But the first morsel
was far from being unpalatable-quite the contrary. I quickly
overcame my disgust, and with the solid appetite of a wayfarer I ate the last crumb of it.
We came upon Sung Zong as I was finishing this rustic delicacy. Groups of houses forming hamlets were scattered hither
and thither. T h e lamasery itself stood isolated on a small
hillock, between the P o and Nagong rivers. T h e latter emerges
from a valley that opens behind the lamasery, and the ranges
which bound it. This provides a commanding background for
the insignificant buildings of the large monastery.
Although Sung Zong is one of the most important places
of the P o country, and is of considerable geographical interest, being at the junction of two large rivers, it has not yet
been charted on the maps. T h e whole region is still terra

' Amphug is the pocket formed on the breast by the large Thibetan
dress tied at the waist with a belt. Thibetans have no other, and the
quantity and variety o f t h i n p they carry in it, often next the skin (for
poor people do not wear underclothing), is really astonishing, and makes
the leanest o f them appear big-bellied.
189

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
incognita t o geographers, and I could not but deeply regret
that the odd disguise I had been compelled to assume prevented me from gathering the few observations that my modest
ability would have allowed me t o make.
I n all my travels, including this last journey, I have been
uncommonly successful in my search for documents pertaining to the field of m y own studies, and I should have
been glad t o do something that would prove of interest to
others in different fields of knowledge. If I have failed, the
fault is not mine. During the whole period of my stay in
Chinese Thibet m y movements were closely watched by the
spies of the border posts. T h e Lhasa officials in charge of
them had received strict orders to prevent me from entering
the part of Thibet under British influence. M y small baggage,
containing some instruments and requisites for plain scientific
work, which I had once tried to smuggle into the country, led
to my detection, and I was stopped on my way.l Under such
circumstances i t only remained for me t o start as I did, emptyhanded.
I enjoyed too much these months of free life to entertain
unkind feelings toward those who forced upon me the hardships and dangerous risks of m y pilgrimage as a beggar. I
feel rather grateful to them for having led me t o that wonderful experience. Yet one cannot but lament the fact that such
efforts are hindered and not allowed to bear their full fruit.
It is beyond the scope of the present book to deal with gee
graphical matters. Nevertheless a few words may be of interest*
I have already mentioned that the region around the upper
course of the river P o is unsurve~ed. Maps mistake the
Nagong for it, but the former has its source farther to the
southeast.
N o one is t o be blamed for this error, as no white traveller
has ever gone up the river higher than Showa, which is situated far from Sung Zong, downstream. If I am not mistaken,
only one English officer has visited the former place.
T h e Nagong springs from the foot of a small pas,, near a

' See
(1go

Introduction.

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
monastery called Dugang, in the range that divides the basin
of the Salween from that of the Brahmaputra. On the opposite
side of the pass flows the Daishin River, which joins the
Salween.
As the Nagong is an important stream, some might like to
discuss the question as t o which of the two rivers that unite a t
Sung Zong is the main one, and which is the tributary. B u t
the natives have answered this definitely. T h e river formed
by the three streams which I discovered on my way t o P o yul
they call the Po. One of these three comes, as I have said,
from the Po Gotza pass.
Above Sung Zong, the river Po receives two important tributaries emerging from wide valleys, the upper one leading t o
Chos Zong and the second in the direction of Chundo, where
is situated the parent monastery of the two large lamaseries
of Chos Zong and Sung Zong.
The maps of that region, which have been drawn from reports and not actual surveys, indulge in many fancies which are
faithfully copied in successive editions. Amongst them is the
invention of a town called Pozong. I n reality P o Zong means
"the fortress of the Po country." It is a title rather than a
name, almost like our own word "Capital." But the Popas d o
not agree as to which of their towns is entitled t o bear it.
While the people of Pomed (the lower P o ) declare that Pozong
is Showa, where the King of P o has his residence, the inhabitants of Potod (the upper region, extending downstream along
the river P o as f a r as Dashin) affirm that the Pozong is
Chundo.
This is not the only ~eculiarityoffered by the maps of
Thibet. In fact, in most parts of the north and the east they
are of but little use t o travellers, if indeed they are of any use
at all. The names written on them seldom correspond t o
those one hears from the natives. T h e rivers and mountain
ranges are not really in the places they are shown to be, and a
number of them are completely ignored, as are also the roads
with the exception of a few main tracks.
Geographers are wanted on that side of the globe-geog-

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
raphers and other scientists. For I doubt if any land is more
wonderful than that unknown and still forbidden Thibet!
T h e most annoying but unavoidable necessity of revictualing
delayed us a t Sung Zong.
T h e environs of the monastery were full of animation.
Country people could be seen moving hither and thither, leading yaks or horses loaded with wood, meat, or grain. Petty
chiefs rode amongst them giving orders with an important and
busy mien. Trapar also ran t o and fro, in and out of the gate
of the gompa. From the distant spot from which I witnessed
this agitation, the lamasery with its unwhitened mud houses
seemed an anthill occupied by diligently working insects.
T h e fugitive official had taken refuge a t Sung Zong, and
are not
wherever a chief stays, the inhabitants of the region
only compelled t o feed him, his retainers, servants and beasts,
but also to offer him daily presents. This explained the procession of poor ants going to fill the storerooms of the ponpo'r
household.
T h e prophecy with which I had surprised and gratified the
conspirators in the forest cabin, was nearing its fulfilment.
Several great lamas had intervened as peacemakers between
the offended Governor and the braves of Chos Zong. One
of them had passed by us while we were eating, seated near
a stream.
Looking a t the pretty procession of riders clad in gold b r e
cade and bright-yellow satin, with their dark-red travelling
coats and zens,' we had entirely forgotten that humble folk
such as ourselves ought a t least to stand up to show our
respect. T h e great lama, who was a young man, did not
appear offended, and smiled a t his less fortunate brother in the
Order, who had become indescribably ragged by this time.
T h e Thibetan servants, always more arrogant than their masters, looked a t us angrily. But the Tulku had smiled and
' A long shawl of dark-red colour-it
is sometimes yellow amongst
some hermits of Amd-worn
by the members of the religious order' Literally, illusory body created by magic. A Tulku, according to
popular belief, is the reincarnation of eome powerful-minded being, man

192

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
they had to refrain from beating us, as they would have
enjoyed doing.
Yongden remained about three hours a t the gompa. H e
met some nice obliging trapas who gave him goods in addition
to the provisions he had purchased, such as a liberal amount
of bread, and dried apricots. Such kind treatment gave him
no chance of shunning the long chat which Thibetans enjoy
so much, or of refusing t o drink the tea so cordially offered.
Thus time passed quickly (and rather ~ l e a s a n t l ~for
) my companion, but rather dully for me, who remained seated with our
baggage in a wild and barren spot swept b y a piercingly cold
wind.
For company I had first a few children minding cattle, who
came to sit near me. I learned a few things worth knowing
from their candid mouths! After them came a well-to-do
traveller, accompanied by several servants. H e stopped t o
ask for whom I was waiting, as he saw my two loads and so
understood that I had a companion.
I told him that my son, a gejong, had gone t o the monastery.
This looked quite respectable, and the man dismounted t o ask
me more questions about my native land and other topics.
At that time I had again adopted a new mother countrythe far-off Ngari. The traveller had only heard about it, but
he had once been to Shigatze, the capital of the Tsang province.
AS I had stayed there some years before, I was quite a t ease
in discussing it, and the man having seated himself on the
ground, we had a pleasant chat together, in which the servants
joined. He was coming from the Kongbu province and carried some cakes of dried molasses, of which he gave me two.
When the lama returned proudly with his provisions, and
boasted of the presents he had received, I enjoyed puzzling
him with my two sugar cakes, which I said that a Zhamo (goddess) had given me.
The country wlrich we entered soon after leaving Sung Zong
must without doubt be admirable in all seasons, but winter had
Or god. Very improperly foreigners call these lamas "Living Buddhas."
That name, as well as the idea which i t conveys, is unknown to Thibetane.

193

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
now transformed it into a bewitching fairyland. For miles
we proceeded under cover of gloomy, silent, and mysterious
forests- Then, an unexpected clearing suddenly revealed, behind
the dark line of tall fir trees, extraordinary landscapes
shining snow-clad mountains, towering high in the blue sky,
frozen torrents and glittering waterfalls hanging like gigantic
and immaculate curtains from the rugged rocks. We looked at
them, speechless and enraptured, wondering if we had not
reached the confines of the human world and were confronted
with the abode of some genii. But as we continued on our
way the forest again surrounded us, and the vision disappeared.
Yet to-morrow or the day after a new fantastic apparition
would rise before us in the same instantaneous way!
I tarried long in that beautiful region, making long deviations from the direct road, walking leisurely during the day,
sleeping generally in the open, a t the foot of a tree or in a cave
when lucky enough t o discover one on my road at the time
of camping. But the beauty of nature was not the only object
of interest offered by P o yul.
W e did not always spend the night in the forest. On reaching hamlets, isolated farms, or monasteries, we often begged
hospitality. Sometimes it happened that we were forbidden
t o enter. More than once we had t o defend ourselves against
dogs left loose t o keep us away; and with utmost gravity we
sometimes discussed the degree of ferocity of the canine
watchers of the different places we ~ a s s e d . We had been give*
enough opportunities to make a study of it! Other selfish
people answered our request b y saying that there was a sick
person in the house, and this was equivalent to a strict prohibition t o approach it.
A superstition, having nothing to d o with the desire to avoid
the propagation of diseases, is at the bottom of this custom.
Thibetans, as I have already mentioned, never believe that any
illness or accident has a natural cause. These are considered
as the work of evil spirits, which are hunting for the vita'
principles of the beings to enslave them or feed upon them.
A strong and healthy person is supposed to be more difficult

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
to catch and kill than one already debilitated by sickness,
just as a swift deer is a harder match for the hunter than
a lame or already wounded one.
Now, Thibetans suspect all travellers coming from afar of
being accompanied by devils,' so that, if introduced in the
house where a man is ailing, undesirable and invisible visitors
could enter it in their train.
Needless t o say, the cunning Thibetans often take advantage of this superstition t o shut their doors even when all the
inmates enjoy perfect health. I once terribly frightened a
woman who used this excuse t o send us away. Before she
closed the blinds of Ezr only window I had had time to
peep inside and to see that no one was lying down. Then,
assuming an inspired air, I exposed her lie and prophesied
that, as she had falsely told saintly pilgrims that one of her
family was ill, real sickness would indeed come on her house.
This declaration was accompanied by brief choregraphic exercises in which I shook the lap of my large dress as if I were
liberating a host of devils who had been sheltered in it. T h e
comedy ended with a present of butter which the selfish housewife, who was now weeping, offered us. She also begged us
to spend the night under her roof, but we refused. Still, t o
console her, Yongden blessed the small farm from outside t o
charm away the sickness I had foreseen. It may be that my
performance has benefited, in the course of time, some tired
and hungry arjopa t o whom the woman has not dared to refuse
hospitality.
But all doors were not closed t o us. F a r from it! This
gave me most interesting opportunities of witnessing from the
inside, as we had done along the upper Salween Valley, the life
and customs of the inhabitants. Familiar talks allowed me to
study their peculiar mentality, their views and beliefs. I heard
witty stories and terrifying legends. Thanks t o the time I
had allowed for slow progress and wandering a t random, I
Explanations of that peculiar view would be too long to be given
I shall discuss the subject in a special book devoted to the study
of Thibetan religion and superstitions.

here.

195

M Y JOURNEY T O LHASA
was also quite unexpectedly favoured with two unforgenable
meetings, most valuable for my observations on Thibetan mysticism. However, for the present, I must confine myself to
the brief outline of my adventures of travel, putting aside the
more special topics which will find their place elsewhere.
T h e first important place we reached after Sung Zong wa
called Dashin. It is the seat of a large monastery.
T h e day before we arrived there, we met on the road two
villagers, husband and wife, who had bought a cow somewhere
and were leading it t o their house a t Dashin. As was nearly
always the case when coming in touch with people, Yongden
was requested t o make mor about some land business. We
walked several hours with the pair, and as we stopped to
drink tea, they went on ahead, promising a hearty welcome
in their home. However, toward the end of the afternoon,
while crossing a village, we saw the cow tied before a door,
and its owner shouted a t us from the threshold, "Go slowly.
We will join you soon!" But evening came and the peasants
did not appear. We underst3od they were spending the night
a t their friends' house. It was too late to beg hospitality
a t the first village we reached. People were certainly asleep
and would not open their doors. The incident did not trouble
us in the least, for by that time we had become quite accustomed to remaining a t night in the open. We found a pit in
the forest and lay in it with our baggage; and, as patches of
snow were to be seen here and there, we spread our tent over
us in the old way. T h e sky generously came to our assistance
and sprinkled real snow on our sham snow during our sleep*
We were therefore really well hidden, and kept warm all
the night.
The next day, after having passed a village, we stopped to
take our breakfast on the bank of a wide mountain stream*
We were just finishing when the couple appeared with their
COW.
They explained that they had been delayed and had
slept a t their friends' house, and ~ r e s s e dus to proceed with
them to their house. W e went together, and very likely out
of the desire to get payment of their hospitality beforehand,

196

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
they asked Yongden to make m o s again, about various affairs,
even while walking. One of the ?nos concerned the health of
a man very seriously ill. Would he still be alive, or not,
when the two villagers reached Dashin?
Although he was, as a rule, a seer full of prudence, Yongden was bored by the importunity of the peasants, and said
bluntly, "He is dead!"
I could not tell whether the news brought them sorrow or
pleasure. We did not know if they were the anxious heirs of
the supposed departed one, or his loving relatives. At any
rate, they spoke together in a low tone, and then kept silent.
About half an hour later, a man passed us, coming from
Dashin. Our companions a t once asked about the fate of the
sufferer.
"He is much better," was the answer.
The prestige of the lama fell immediately, and when the
golden roof of the Dashin monastery emerged from the forest,
those who were to be our hosts went their way without taking
any more notice of us.
We did not attempt t o follow them or try in any way to
claim the hospitality which they had promised us. W e really
cared very little for it. It was indeed a happy time in my
life when the many nights spent in the open had freed me
from concern about shelter and the like!
The place where we had been abandoned was a pretty one,
half smiling, half austere. The lamas of Dasllin had evidently felt, as I did, the peculiar beauty of the spot, for they
had built several T ~ a mKkangl there, high above the road,
against a rocky cliff. T h e small white houses of the recluses
appeared as if hung on the black rock, while a few daring fir
trees, which had taken koot in some crevices, framed the whole
cluster of ascetic dwellings.
Anchoritic life is held in great honour in Thibet. Nearly
every monastery erects in some remote place in its neighbourh o d some habitations for the use of those of its monks who
wish to retire for a time-or forever-from all worldly activity.
T~anrmeans boundary, line of demarcation; and Khang nlcans house.

197

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
These houses are called Tsam Khang because the recluses
remain isolated behind their closed doors as if a barrier had
been erected around them, to be crossed by no one.
Any lama who is above the common lot is expected to spend,
a t least once in his life, a period of a little over three years in
such a retreat, and, in addition, one month or more yearly.
These periods of retreat are called Tsam, and the recluse
Tsam-pa. There are many varieties of Tsam, more or less
severe as t o the strictness and length of the reclusion. Between
the lama, who merely shuts himself in a Tsam Khang or even
in his own apartment, and who, although he does not receive
visitors, sees freely a number of attendants who wait upon
him, and the one who dwells in complete darkness and silence,
receiving his food through a double wicket, there exist many
degrees.
Besides Tsam Khangs there exist in Thibet riteus, which are
a more remote kind of hermitage, t o which the still stricter
ascetics resort. Details about them cannot be given in the
present book. I must leave them for a future publication.
Indeed, this world of the Thibetan mystics is a mystery in the
mystery of Thibet, a strange wonder in a wonderland country.
Very possibly Thibet will soon cease t o be forbidden
but one may doubt if the secret of its Tsam Khang and sitellj,
the aims of their dwellers and the results they achieve, will
ever be disclosed to the many.
I sat in the meadow near a huge erratic boulder, and enjoyed
weaving fancies about the men hidden from me behind the
white walls of their miniature dwellings. During this time a
large party of nerkorpar passed me. They had visited Lhasa
on a pilgrimage, and were on their way to their homes in the
Nu valley. Yongden and I endeavoured to get information
about the road and the country they had crossed, but we got
very few interesting details. These poor villagers or membefl
of the low clergy d o not take the least interest in what they
see on their way. They walk like cattle, without even noticing
the road which they follow. Most of them are certainly not
bright-minded, but it may be said in their defence that the

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
fatigue caused by the long daily tramps with a heavy load on
the back and scanty food tends t o benumb the mental faculties. I have experienced this myself and once had t o struggle
with all my might against a kind of overpowering dullness,
which would have made me walk in as bovine a fashion as
these poor pilgrims.
On nearing the monastery I remarked, standing a t some distance, the man and the woman whom we had met on the road.
They looked a t us shyly, though intently.
"They are not bad fellows, after all," I said, pointing them
out to Yongden. "I am certain that they repent having abandoned us, and now wish to keep their promise."
The lama cast a glance a t the couple.
"The sick man has died," he declared.
"How do you know?" I asked, with astonishment.
"It is not difficult t o understand," replied my companion.
"Have you not noticed how humble their attitude is and how
different from their manner on the road? They fear to have
offended a great prophet, and dread the evil consequences of
their rudeness. T h a t means that they have found the man
dead on their arrival."
Perhaps this pessimistic opinion was, after all, justified. I
never knew.
Yongden walked with a dignified gait toward the monastery, without giving as much as a glance a t the anguished pair,
and I sat on the stones bordering the avenue which passed
along the river below the gompa.
Although it was not built on a summit, the deep river winding a t its feet and the rocky headland which confronts it from
across the green water, surround the lamasery with a pretty
and romantic landscape to which the gilded dome, emerging
above the old walls of the enclosure, adds a peculiar character.
Rehind the monastery, a wide cultivated valley opens out. A
track follows it, and leads to southern Thibet, across several
passes. This trail has branches, some of which reach the borders of India in Assam, on the banks of the Brahmaputra, while
others take the traveller to China or to Burma. On the opposite

M Y JOURNEY T O LHASA
shore of the Polung Tsangpo, a short distance from Dashin,
yet another track runs northward through the hills, touching the main road from Chiamdo to Lhasa. This gives access
to several roads leading to the "Land of Grass," to Jakyendo,
the market town situated on the route of the tea caravans.
Then, proceeding still farther north, one can reach the great
Sin-Thibetan markets of Sining and Dankar, in Kansu. Continuing the journey, one arrives in Mongolia. All the northern
part of this track, beyond the Chiamdo road, is familiar to me.
I n any other country, a place situated in such a favourable
geographical location would have become an important centre.
The divers roads which converge there would have been duly
improved, if not as cart roads, a t least as good mule paths.
But in Thibet no one gives a thought to such questions, and
Dashin is but a village.
As I was seated b y the side of the river, several people
passed, and amongst them were some women going to cut
wood in the forest which we had crossed on our way. They
stopped to question me. I told them I was waiting for my son,
who had gone to the monastery, and we enjoyed a short chat
together.
Yongden remained very long a t the gompa. He had by
chance met a monk coming from the same land where his
great-grandfather had been a "Red Cap" married lama of rank.
H e knew a number of people there, if not all personally, at
least by name; and although he had not heard about them for
years, he satisfied the eager curiosity of his brother in the
Order and gave him news of everybody and of everything.
Such a lucky meeting could not pass in Thibet without eating
and drinking. While her "son" enjoyed the clerical company
behind the wall where women were forbidden,' the "old
mother," after the sun had set began t o feel rather cold!
seated on the stones telling her beads.
1

Women arc only allowed to enter the monasteries o f the "Yellow Cap''
sect on certain religious festival days, and even then must retire outside of
the walls after sunset. M y situation at Kurn-Bum was quite exceptional*
I never heard o f a woman to whom a house had been granted there.

200

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
The women returned, each one carrying a load of wood.
They were most astonished to see me still in the same place.
This gave them the opportunity for another chat, and the
eldest one kindly invited me to her house for the night, explaining to me minutely where it was situated. They then went
away, but had only gone a few steps when Yongden appeared,
accompanied by a young novice lama. Both were loaded with
provisions, and we were invited to pass the night somewhere
in the village. But I preferred to go with the good woman
with whom I had had a talk, and so i t was she whom we
followed.
The master of the house into which we were shown, although
only a villager, was remarkably intelligent. H e had travelled
much and had lived long a t Lhasa. W e took great pleasure in
listening to him, though we were rather afraid that he might
penetrate my disguise. So I performed all the menial work,
leaving the lama seated on the carpet that had been spread
for him near the fire in an entrance room, for we were not
invited to enter the family kitchen. I noticed, since my arrival
in the P o country, that the inhabitants of that region were
rather particular in that respect. I n the Nu valley, and often
in that of the Giamo nu chu, we were allowed to sleep with
the people of the house in the kitchen; but the Popas seemed
decidedly against it.
We started a t daybreak. T h e weather was cold and the
wind blew hard, sweeping along the large open valley
toward the south, but we soon entered the forest again, and
felt warmer.
The Po valley, from its source, a t the foot of the range
which we had crossed, down to the Brahmaputra, offers a variety of climates. W e had found it amongst deep snows, and
now it was flowing between barley fields, in January.
The virgin soil of the valley seems to be very fertile.
Attracted by the hope of better harvests, a number of new
settlers coming from the adjacent provinces had cleared small
parts of the forest, and built rustic farms of logs, very like Russian "isbas." The fir trees which sometimes surround them

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
add to this likeness, and give a decidedly Russian or Siberian
aspect to the landscape.
M a n y of these primitive homes are no more than cabins, of
which some are not larger than eighty to a hundred feet square.
I n one of these we found a n idyllic pair of lovers. Youth
had long since passed for both, though they were not yet old.
T h e man had a wen on his neck, and his spouse herself was
n o beauty. I n the hut, together with the couple, slept a
cow, her suckling calf, two other youngsters of the same species,
a true nursery of four-footed
and a few baby black pigs
young brothers, having, alas! n o attentive nurse to lead the
little ones outside when their needs required open air. In these
surroundings we heard a most touching love story, though of
the kind Western moralists call "sinful." For the housewife
of the Noah's Ark had been mistress of another, better and
larger dwelling, and had run away into the wilds, penniless,
with a penniless Romeo. They had no children, and-a thing
rare in Thibet-did not desire any. Their love for each other,
though of long standing, filled their hearts t o the brim.
These poor people treated us well. We shared a turnip
soup with them, and they then insisted on presenting us with
some trampa t o eat on the road.
Yongden was requested t o make mar. He ended cleverly
enough by saying that in order to please the Lu they ought
to clean their house carefully, and t o offer milk2 to the snake
deities.
W e four then lay down to sleep, our hosts on one side of
the hearth, Yongden and I on the other side, the cow near the
door, the calves a t our feet, and the lively little pigs running
to and fro over us, as there was not much room left for them in
the hut.
When we heard the lovers snoring, Yongden muttered in
my ear:

...

1

Known in Sanskrit literature as &go, or serpent demigods, owning
fabulous riches and granting wealth to their devotees.
T h e customary offering to these deities, who feed only on pure things
such as water and milk. They are offended by the mere smell of meat
or bad odoure.

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA

"I will put five rupees in a pot on the shelf. They will find
them when they clean the house and will think that the Lus
have brought them. . . M a y I?"
It was a wonderful joke; but I advised him to give them

.

Indian rupees. This was a little precaution for safety's sake.
Had we been suspected of being the donors, these rupees
would have proved almost certainly that we had gone from
Lhasa (where these coins are available), t o eastern Thibet,
and were on our way back home. As the Indian money was
in a separate bag, even in the dark i t was easy t o get a t it.
I should like t o have been able t o witness the finding of
the five rupees. How great an opinion the two good people
must have formed of the holy, learned lama whose blessing had
attracted to them the bounty of the Lus! But as there are
countless popular stories about Lus wandering about in human
shape, perhaps our hosts would believe that we were ourselves
Lus in disguise.
That visit of gods t o faithful lovers reminded me of the
fable of Philemon and Baucis and I related it to my companion.
New Year in the P o yul, as well as in some parts of Kham,
does not come a t the same date as a t Lhasa, where people
follow the Chinese calendar. This peculiarity caused us to
arrive a t Showa, the humble capital of Pomed, on the very day
of the Popas' New Year. T h e King was a t Lhasa with his
wife, a sister of the present general-in-chief of the Thibetan
army. We already knew this before reaching Showa, but a
servant of the palace whom we met on the road repeated it t o
US. Nevertheless, as everybody would rejoice and be merry
on that day, we wanted to get our own little private fun and
the profit thereof. So we boldly began a loud recitation a t
the gate of the royal dwelling. Blessings on each and all
flowed freely from our eloquent lips. I doubt that even in
that country of noisy beggars they have often seen our equals.
Heads appeared a t the windows, people swarmed down the
steep staircases. They were bewildered, bewitched. Our triumph made us bold, and our boldness increased the strength
of Yongden's deep voice, trained in the choir in the lamasery.

M Y JOURNEY T O LHASA
T h e dogs which had begun to bark were finally silenced, and
disappeared as if terrorised, or fled to the farthest corners of
the courtyard.
I guess that, however uncommon our performance may have
been, the men themselves must have felt anxious to see the
end of it, for servants brought out a pot of spirits, tea, and
tsampa, and we were invited to sit down in the courtyard and
feast. W e declined the offer of chong (spirits), saying that
as Buddhists we never drank any. This increased the esteem
of the palace stewards still further, and they showed it by
ordering dried meat to be placed before us. But when we
again declared that as Buddhists we respected the life of all
things and did not approve of the slaughter of animals-a view
which necessarily meant vegetarianism-and that, above all, we
would not begin the year with a cruel action, their admiration
became extreme.
Regarding the flesh diet, it is against the spirit of Buddhism,
though one cannot find in the Scriptures a text which forbids
it expressly, as is the case with intoxicating beverages. But
the restrictions mentioned in connection with the partaking of
flesh amount to a formal prohibition, for there is no way to
avoid transgressing them. A Buddhist is allowed to eat meat
under the following restrictions: He must not have killed
the beast himself, he must not have ordered anyone else to
kill it, it must not have been killed by somebody with the
intention of supplying it to him, he must not suspect that
the animal has been killed.
If the two first restrictions may be easily turned, the third
one is already a trifle more embarrassing; but some get around
it by saying that the butchers slaughter for the public at
large and not to supply the requirements of any particular
person. As for the fourth, it must be difficult indeed to
eat a piece of meat without "suspectingv that the animal from
which it has been taken had been killed! But in all countries there are able sophists. The band of jovial monks, in
the rnedisval tales, who in Lent baptized a chicken "carp"
SO as to eat it lawfully, is a case in point.
And the sub-

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
tleties of the Oriental mind can easily provide many arguments in favour of gluttony!
As I am on that subject, I should like to point out a striking difference between Lamaism and the self-styled primitive
orthodox Buddhism of the Southern school. T h e discussion,
being connected with Thibetan custom, is not out of place.
Meat-eaters amongst the Buddhists of Ceylon, Burma and
Siam, try, as I have said, to justify their flesh diet by various
sophistic interpretations of the above-mentioned restrictions.
When they belong to the religious order, they declare also that
they are not allowed to choose the food begged by them, and
must accept whatever they get from charitable people. This
is altogether wrong. T h e genuine round of the Bhikshus l of
yore has become nowadays a mere pretence, a ceremonial walk
to appointed places to fetch a meal specially cooked for the
monks. Moreover, they would not fail to withdraw if bad,
dirty, or unhealthy food was poured into the ritualistic bowls
they carry themselves, or into the various vessels that are
brought behind them by their attendant boys.
In Thibet, the situation is quite different. Certainly, many
are those who repeat: "I have not killed the animal myself,"
but they do it with complete scepticism as to the value of the
excuse. In fact, there is not one Thibetan who is not convinced that eating flesh is more or less wrong. The usual
practice of the lamas-I d o not say the trapas, or common
clergy-is to abstain from animal food on the eighth, fifteenth,
and thirtieth days of the moon, and during the whole of the
first month of the year, thus showing their regard for the right
way of living which they have not the strength to follow
continually.
Men and women, either "lay" or in the Order, who are
strict vegetarians-who feed on "white diet," as it is called in
Thibetan-are not exceedingly rare in Thibet, and they are
grea~lypraised for it.

' Original name of the Buddhist monks, which means mendicants. It
has hcen translated exactly in Thibetan as Gelongs: that is to say, virtuous mendicants.
205

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA

The "Tantrik" sects hold special views about killing. These
are interesting in many respects, but it would take too much
space to examine them here. They will find place, in due
course, in a study on the philosophic and mystic doctrines of
Thibet.
However, before continuing our story, I must add that,
although a t first sight the habit of eating meat causes the premature death of many animals and appears more important
than spirit drinking or than the actual fact of being drunk, Thibetans are justified in their opinion1 that sobriety is the most
important factor in mental and spiritual progress. A sinner
who knows what may come of his bad actions is likely to
change his ways, but the drunkard is helpless, owing to the
collapse of his reasoning faculty. They illustrate it by an
amusing story:
A Buddhist monk was made by an evil spirit to choose any
of the following three sins: to kill a sheep, to break his VOW
of celibacy, or to drink strong drink.
T h e poor monk, after having pondered the matter, shrank
from the first two and thought that the last would bear the
lightest consequences. Once drunk, excited, and having lost
all control over himself, he took a woman, and this second kind
of intoxication led him t o kill the sheep t o give a feast to his
mistress !
But enough! Thibetan stories about monks and the
lamaist church are a rich mine of fine humour, and if we are
once sunk in it we shall never get to the end of the chaptwAfter being entertained with tea, trampa, and different kinds
of cakes, we received a full supply of provisions and went away,
followed by many admiring eyes.
At Showa, the main track of the Po valley crosses the river.
The covered bridge, with its small watch-towers, is large and
well built, all of wood. The gates can be shut on both sides
when required. A considerable number of posters, on which

' Unfortunately, a mere academic opinion held only by the literati, for
the laity and even a p m of the lowest clergy are rather fond of alcohol-

206

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
are printed magic or mystic formulz, cover it, and bundles
of miniature paper flags, fluttering in the breeze, are hung in
quantities on all its sides. T h e stream is supposed t o carry
with it the words of praise or blessing that are printed on
them.
The Thibetans, as well as the Chinese, are fond of decorating the bridges, the roads, and the peculiarly beautiful sites of
their country with inscriptions of a religious, philosophical, or
poetic character. Some travellers have thought proper to
ridicule that custom. I find it impossible t o follow them. A
few lines of delicate poetry, a page of a philosophical treatise
such as one sees engraved on certain rocks in Thibet, the
meditative image of a Buddha painted in a natural cave, or
even a strip of paper hung above a river or swinging in the
air at the top of a pass, bearing the old Sanskrit wish "Sarva
mangalam" (Joy t o all), seem t o me greatly preferable to the
advertisements of whiskey or ham which "decorate" the roads
of Western countries.
I beg my readers' pardon. I a m b u t a savage!
At the end of the bridge there is a large mani !ha khang
with engraved stones, revolving mani wheels and a number of
flags. From there one gets a general view of the P o king's
palace, merely a square squat building whose upper story
is lighted by small windows and whose architecture has nothing
especially striking.
Our big meal and the time spent in inspecting the place had
delayed us long. Nevertheless, as we were only a t the beginning of the afternoon, we preferred t o continue our way rather
than remain a11 night a t Showa.
The evening brought us t o a village where we feasted again
with some country folk. On the morrow we feasted in yet
another one.
If our Christmas had been somewhat dramatic, that first
Thibetan New Year roved really merry. Yet how much merrier was to be the real New Year a t Lhasa! But a t that
time the enjoyments which we were to find in the sacred city
lay still shrouded in the mystery of the future.

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
I n the second village we were the guests of a large family
of new settlers who treated us most cordially. While we were
seated with the family around the hearth, I watched one of
the girls kneading a big ball of dough. She worked at it for
several hours. Yongden, as usual, had made mos several times,
and we began to feel sleepy, yet she still kneaded her flour. I
was rather puzzled as t o what would become of it, and I would
very likely have continued t o chat with the housewife in the
hope of seeing the end of the girl's work and its outcome; but
Yongden asked permission t o sleep, saying that I was tired and
that we wished t o start early the next morning. I could not
say anything to the contrary, so we retired t o a corner of
the kitchen-dormitory, and lay down under our tent-blanket.
Asiatics d o not feel, as we do, the need of privacy and silence
in sleep. Even sick people, unless they belong to the upper
classes, lie amongst others who d o not in the least refrain
from noisy talk and loud laughter. I once saw an old, dying
man, stretched on the counter of a shop while commercial
transactions went on as usual between his son and the customers. And this man was not a pauper but a well-to-dotrader, but neither he nor his son had ever thought it necessary
t o make special arranoements for sleeping.
9
I know that even In Western lands one can find families
whose dwelling is composed of but one room, but it is utter
poverty which leads them to such a way of living. In Thibet,
amongst country folk, the farm always includes a number of
rooms, but none of them has really a special purpose. Wool,
grain, provisions, ploughs, and so on fill the different parts of
the house, and, for the most part, the family's general living
and sleeping room is the kitchen.
Our hosts had not to stay their New Year revels on account
of tramps such as we, and so the merriment continued. We
were supposed to sleep undisturbed by the noise, as true arlopar would have done. But I naturally remained awake, and
long continued to watch the Thibetans and to listen to their
talk. Still fatigue prevailed, and I was dozing when a smell of
frying dough aroused me to the reality of the situation. The
208

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
girl had ceased to knead and was now frying New Year cakes
in that sweet oil made with the kernel of the apricot stone,
which is a peculiar product of Pomed. What a pity! H a d we
stayed longer, we would have had our share of them! And
now
they would, perhaps, eat them all and we would
only get the smell of them!
I am not particularly gluttonous, but the daily dish of
tsampa and scarcely anything else was rather austere.
This smell of fresh, warm, crisp cakes.
I was enraged with
That
the lama. What was he doing? Perhaps he slept.
I
exI
did
not
want
t
o
be
tantalized
alone.
was too bad!
tended my arm as f a r as I could, but it was too short to reach
my hateful son. I managed t o crawl toward him under our
cover and discovered that his eyes were wide open.
"They are eating cakes," I whispered in his ear.
"Oh, I can see," he answered in a subdued, desolate voice.
"Do you think they will give us some?"
"No hope. They believe we are sleeping."
What a disheartening answer! So I remained watching the
happy ones. But they could not keep pace with the girl and
eat as many cakes as she fried. Those which were left over
were heaped in a large basket and my hopes were concen. To-morrow the cakes would be cold, but
trated on them.
still they would be different from our everlasting tJampa.
Should we get some to-morrow?
The family lay down in its turn, on the floor under blankets;
the hearth fire burned low; darkness spread in the room. I
fell asleep.
In the morning there still remained some raw dough and
we ate fresh, crisp, New Year cakes, and carried away a good
number of the cold ones in our provision bag.

...

...

..

...

...

...

Until then our journey through the P o country had been perfectly peaceful, and I began to think that there must be much
exaggeration in the stories which are current about the Popas.
Popas-so Thibetans say-are
born robbers. Each year
gangs, sometimes to the n u m b e r of a hiindred, fall unexpect-

MY JOURNEY T O LMASA
edly on their neighbours of the Kong-bu or Dainshi provinces
and loot their villages. Beside these organized expeditions,
most Popas-traders, pilgrims, or mere villagers-find it difficult to let any traveller they may happen to meet on their
way pass without trying t o levy an undue tax on his baggage,
however miserable it may be. A few handfuls of barley flour,
a worn-out blanket, two or three copper coins-all is good to
them. B u t if, as a rule, they let the poor folk who meekly
submit to their demands go unmolested, they are quick to
turn murderers when resistance is offered or a valuable booty
expected.
Truly, n o wealthy travellers venture to go through the forests of Po. Only the poorest of the poor-the beggar pilgrims
made bold by the fact of their utter destitution-are to be met
along the tracks which cross the Popas' hill.
As for us, we had not met any outsider, either rich or poor,
on our way. T h e few people whom we had seen on the solitary roads were all natives of the country, or settlers who had
practically become Popas.
Events were now to take another turn, and that gay New
Year marked the end of a period of quietness.
T h e very afternoon after we had left the hospitable house
where such good cakes were baked, we ~ a s s e dby an isolated
farm just as a number of people were emerging from it. The
New Year festivities were still going on; some of the men who
had enjoyed themselves were decidedly drunk, and the remainder were not very sober. All of them carried guns across their
shoulders, and some made a pretence of shooting at us. As
for us, we proceeded as if we had noticed nothing.
I n the evening I discovered a roomy cave in which we slept
comfortably. W e slept much too long, and delayed still further
over some soup a t breakfast. As we did so, a man appeared
and asked us if we had nothing to sell. H e regarded the contents of our bags, which were still open.
Our two common spoons especially attracted his attentione
Then he seated himself, and taking a piece of dried, fermented cheese out of his dress he began to eat it.

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
That kind of cheese is very much like French Roquefort.
Thinking it would improve our menus, Yongden asked the
man if he had some t o sell. H e answered in the affirmative;
he had some a t home, not far from the cave, and would barter
one against needles, if we had any. We had a few which we
had carried for this purpose. So the man went to fetch his
cheese.
We had not yet finished our packing when he came back
with a cheese and followed by another man. T h e newcomer
was much bolder than the first with whom we had dealt. H e
fingered the cloth of our tent and told us that he would purchase it. He then took the spoons and examined them, while
his companion cast glances in the direction from which they
had come, as if expecting other arrivals.
We had no doubt about the intentions of the two Popas.
The bolder one had already put the two coveted spoons in
his ampAas and refused t o give them back, while the other
one endeavoured to take the tent out of the lama's hands.
I realized that others had been summoned and were to assist
in the robbery.
The matter would soon become serious. We must frighten
these two away and start in haste. Perhaps we would be able
to reach the next village, and the thieves would not dare to
follow us.
I endeavoured to appeal to the good feelings of the men,
but it was of no avail. Time was of importance; we must
put an end to the business, and show the others that we were
not timid and defenceless folk.
"Let that tent alone a t once!" I commanded. "And give
the spoons back!"
In the meantime I had my revolver in readiness under my
dress. The boldest of the thieves only laughed and, turning
his back on me, he bent to pick up some other object. I shot,
from close behind him, turning my revolver away from him.
But his companion saw me and, being too terrified to warn his
friend, he could do nothing but stare wildly a t me. Whether or
not the other fellow saw him, I cannot tell, but he threw

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
himself backwards just as 1 shot, and the bullet passed close
to his head, grazing his hair.
Flinging the spoons and the tent on the ground, the two
ran like hunted hares across the thicket.
T h e situation was not entirely pleasant. The ruffiansmight
have gone t o fetch some of their kindred, the men whom they
seemed to expect. I told Yongden t o tie the loads in haste
and be off as quickly as possible.
What would have happened, had we remained alone, I cannot say, for a party of about thirty pilgrims-the first foreign travellers we met in Po yut, and the only ones we were
ever to meet-suddenly
appeared. They had heard the shot,
and enquired as t o its cause.
It was annoying t o be identified as carrying a revolver, for
only chiefs and rich traders own these. Of course they thought
that it was Yongden who had fired; and later on when th'ey
asked t o see the weapon, we produced an old-pattern small one,
instead of the automatic pistol that had nearly sent the Popa on
t o another world.
W e joined the party, and perhaps we owe our lives to this
most unexpected meeting.
W e learned from our new companions that the Popas truly
deserved their bad name, and we were soon to confirm this
from our own experience.
T h e party which we had joined was mostly composed of
people from Zogong in the Nu valley, the place that we had
avoided by crossing the river and cutting through several
ranges.
The very day after we arrived a t the dokpar' camp where
we had taken a guide and a horse to climb to the Aigni 1 4
they had reached another cowmen's encampment at the foot
of the pass leading into the Nagong valley.
Before crossing the mountain a number of the trapas wished
to sew new soles on their boots, and so the larger part of the
band decided t o remain one day more near the d o k p a ~ 'encampment to get this done. A few laymen and nearly all the women
preferred to ascend the pass slowly, instead of lingering at

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
the dokpas' place. They set out and slept somewhere under
the trees, lower down on the other side of the range. At daybreak a number of Popas appeared, proceeding, with loaded
yaks, toward the Daishin province to exchange dried apricots,
chillies, etc., for barley. When they saw the poor pilgrims
they rushed a t them and took away all their blankets and the
few coins they had hidden under their clothes. Then, learning
that others were expected, they ordered them t o proceed, without loitering on the road. They unloaded their yaks, drove
them on the hills, and seating themselves near the top of the
pass waited for the remainder of the party to appear.
The trapas found them there, on the watch, like demoniacal
spirits of the mountain, ready t o prey upon travellers. T h e
Popas asked them for some present, which is a polite way common to robbers of China and of Thibet. But many of the
monks were armed with spear or sword, and preferred t o d o
battle. The Popas had swords, too, but the pilgrims were
more numerous, and the valiant sons of P o yul were defeated.
The lamas joined their unfortunate vanguard the following
day.
Some of these, acting as guides to their companions, had
already travelled to P o yul through the Gotza la. When they
heard that we had been able to force our way through the
ranges, they very much regretted that fear of the snow had
prevented them from following the summer road across the
solitudes, where we had had a hard time but avoided robbers.
Of the three passes on that side, they knew only the Gotza la.
Like most Kampus of the Nu and upper Giamo nu chu
vallcys, these people were exceedingly pleasant. W e greatly
enjoyed their company, and accompanied them for several
days. But then, in order to make up the time they had lost
in the highlands of Po, they began to race with such speed
that 1 left them to their sport, and fell back.
On the second day that we spent with that gay party we
left the banks of the P o lung river, which we had followed from
its source in the snow-buried highlands. I t was now a beautiful, large blue stream, about to lose itself in the Yeru Tsangpo.

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
B u t before this merging of its personality it had still to
receive a tributary as big as itself, the Yigong Tsangpo. We
had t o cross this river in the same way as we crossed the
Giamo nu chu, and before it the Mekong, that is to say, by
hanging to a rope and being hauled from the opposite side.
Our good luck had again brought us companions at that
moment when they were so sorely needed. The tupasl who
make a trade of hauling the travellers across would never have
taken the trouble for two lone beggars. We should, perhaps,
have waited for days, camped on the bank of the river, until
a number of passengers had collected.
An insolent lot they seemed, these ferrymen whose ferry
was a woefully sagging leather cable spanning a river at least
twice as wide as the Giamo nu chu where we had crossed it.
Their chief seemed t o be an old grandmother, who looked like
a witch. She received the money paid for the passage and
directed operations.
A t first the Popas told us t o wait until the morning, but
after repeated entreaties, and because we were a large party,
they condescended t o d o the work that afternoon. Truly
it was a difficult business. T h e tupas were at least a dozen
strong. To begin with, some of them ~ a s s e dthe towing rope
across-a
real acrobatic feat that requires an uncommon
strength in the wrists and a complete absence of giddiness.
These men were not towed, as we, the passengers, would be.
They scrambled unaided over that sagging and swaying rope
a t a considerable distance above the rushing waters. When
they had reached the opposite bank, the passage of the 1%gage began, during which the old woman required from us all
three needles or a little money as a supplement to the price
already paid. Needles are in great demand in the interior of
Thibet, and are very difficult to get. The mother tuPa certainly made a profitable trade with those she exacted frorn
the travellers.
Most of the men in our party belonged to the lamaist order
and t o the great state monasteries of Lhasa: Sera, Depu*g,
Ferrymen.

214

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
or Galden. The old woman did not show any regard for them,
but she approached Yongden and asked him to make mor,
telling him a quantity of things about her private concerns.
She also let us go without any needle tax. M y turn t o cross
came long before that of the lama. Passengers were sent
two together, and I was tied a t the hook with a woman in
exactly the same way as a t the Salween. N o accident happened this time, but on account of the greater length of the
cable the jolting over the river was much more lively and
unpleasant. From the middle of the river the wonderful snowy
peak of the Gyalwa Pal Ri (the victorious and noble mountain) l appeared in all its splendour. Enclosed in the narrow
frame of the river gorge, it had a peculiarly mysterious beauty
which I had never seen in the wide snowy ranges.
I hastened t o find a shelter for the night, and came across a
cave amongst the huge rocks which form the river banks.
When Yongden arrived, I had already collected the necessary fuel. We had our food and went to sleep. T h e temperature was mild, and it was hard t o realise that we were in the
middle of winter.
In the morning light the Gyalwa Pal Ri appeared still more
glorious than on the day before. It was a perfect jewel; one
might have fancied it to be the immaculate abode of some
radiant god, feeding upon pure light. Our companions, who
thought much more of the gifts which the Lhasa government
grants to the monks of the three state monasteries who attend
the solemn New Year gathering, than of any God, were now in
a great hurry to reach the capital, and did not lose any time
in contemplating the "victorious" peak. When we started they
had already all gone, and we found the large cave in which
they had slept quite empty. This looked like an annoying
complication, for the right trail t o follow was hard to find in
the dense jungle which now reminded me of the lower slopes
of the Himalayas. I noticed a large number of plants and
creepers which I was accustomed t o find in the Sikkin forest
between 3,000 and 4,000 feet level. The air had also entirely
' Which is also styled, "the victorious lotus mountain," Gyalwa Ped Ri.
215

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
lost that peculiarly strong and invigorating savour of the dry
tablelands. It never freezes in that region. The ground was
muddy, the sky cloudy, and the people on the other bank of
the river Ygong had told us that we must expect rain.
A number of trails crossed near the river. One led north
toward the upper country of Potod where it joined tracks that
a h w e d one to reach the grassy northern solitudes. Another
went down toward the Brahmaputra, and a third one led to
the Kongbu province.
W e staned off correctly on the Kongbu track, but hesitated
when it branched into a short cut and a main path. We
decided in favour of the former, following mere intuition, without suspecting that the two would join later on. This short
trail was a true masterpiece of the "Public Works" engineers
of PO yul. It was cut by perpendicular rocks against which
ladders of a peculiar pattern had been placed to enable one to
climb up and down. At other places it ran like a balcony on
branches thrust horizontally into the ground, and the whole
device was built for tall Popas, with much longer legs than
ours. Our feet were left waving in the air on the primitive
staircases, whose steps were shaky stones or the notched
trunks of trees. What we could not d o with our feet we had
t o perform with the help of our hands, hanging in the air
until we touched a point of support, and relying on our
strength to raise ourselves when climbing. Had we not carried
baggage on our backs, we should have enjoyed the sport, but
we were heavily laden. Knowing that no food would be
available on our way, which lay through uninhabited forests,
we had provided ourselves with a full supply of Natnpa, which
weighed heavily on our backs and put our acrobatic feats
of equilibrium in jeopardy.
But worst of all, we feared missing our road. Such a trail
might lead to some forest village, but it could scarcely be
the main highway from Kongbu t o P o yul, followed, as We
knew by loaded horses and mules. We also failed to digcover
any trace of the party of pilgrims. Thirty men would have left
the imprint of their feet in the soft mud. It was most certain
216

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
that our former companions had not passed this way. Yet, as
we were proceeding in the right direction, I ventured t o continue. After all, we were again alone. W e had no gift to
expect from the Lhasa government, nor was our presence requested to read the Scriptures. It would be enough for our own
enjoyment if we reached the Lamaist Rome in time t o witness
the various New Year festivities. W e therefore had time t o
loiter over the country. Fresh meetings with robbers were the
only serious annoyance we had to fear. T h e Popas villagers
themselves had told us to be careful on this forest track, which
they call the P o southern road (Po lho lam), for robbers
haunted it and people ventured on this side only in large
parties. But as we were now in that ill-famed region, being
willingly or unwillingly compelled to cross it, it was useless to
torment ourselves with the possibility of future danger, which
could not be averted.
This most uneven trail, on which we had expended so much
exertion, ended near a beautiful, huge tree dedicated to some
sylvan deity. And here, also, it joined the main track. Happily, we had not missed our way.
This spot broke the monotony of the jungle in a pleasant
way. The giant tree, from the lowest branches of which hung
countless tiny paper flags bearing spells meant to protect
travellers, appeared to be a mighty guardian against the dangers that lie in the gloomy forest. Around it spread that
queer psychic atmosphere peculiar t o places consecrated to
Nature's gods, which tells of times long past when mankind's
heart was still young and nayve.
Our progress became more rapid now that we were trading
a tolerably good path, and I regretted having taken the difficult short cut. I ought rather t o have blessed the very friendly
sylvan deity of that road who had perhaps suggested the choice
to me.
A little farther on I found in the middle of the road a long
shoot of wild orchids in full bloom and quite fresh, as if it had
just been plucked. I relate the fact because, as we were then
in January, it shows that the whole of Thibet is far from being

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
a n icy-cold, bleak country, like the region which extends from
the south of Lhasa t o the Himalayas.
A t the end of the afternoon we overtook the party
pilgrims, who were camped in a pretty clearing near the junction of the P o river and one of its tributaries.
Our arrival caused some commotion, and our new friends
rushed toward us to ask us if we had met any robbers. We
were astonished, and replied that we had not seen a single
human being on our road. T h e y could not understand how
this could be, for they had met a gang of about thirty men
who had tried to extract some presents from them. As they
refused to give the least thing, a fight followed in which the
robbers had been defeated and some of them wounded. Two
of the travellers had been wounded with swords and had lost
a quantity of blood. Another, who had been pushed violently
and had fallen on a rock, complained of internal pains.
A t last, when we had explained that we had come by the
narrow short cut, our new friends congratulated us on having
escaped the robbers on the main path. For, angered as they
must have been after their defeat, they would certainly have
stripped us of all our belongings.
After having heard this news I ceased completely to regret
my tiring exertion on the short cut. Once more I had been
uncommonly lucky.
Encounters with brigands are common enough in Thibet,
and fail t o impress travellers deeply, unless they are extraordinarily bloody. I n spite of the three who lay suffering near
a fire, the others did not feel in the least sorrowful or depressed*
On the contrary, i t seemed as if this little adventure had
relieved the monotony of their journey, and had joyfully
excited them! We spent a very pleasant evening. The Lhasa
trapas related a lot of stories told in the capital, and the latest
gossip about the lamaist court, the high officials and the
philingr rulers of India. W e heard, also, interesting details
about the economic situation of the country and the political
opinions of the clergy. Lastly, they took us into their confidence as to a number of private affairs in which gome of
218

M Y JOURNEY T O LHASA
their companions were concerned. Thanks to them, my store
of observation was further enriched.
The big fires which the party had lit, and the noise made
in the forest by cutting wood, attracted the notice of a few
Popas villagers living on the bank of the river. Several men,
who did not look perfectly sober, came, inspected our camp,
and chatted with some of us. I suspected that they were
scouting to ascertain our strength and would inform their
friends of the chance they might have of successfully looting us.
They came to Yongden and asked him to remain one day
with them t o bless their houses and properties. T h e lama,
of course, declined the invitation, mentioning the necessity of
making haste in order t o reach Lhasa in time for the great
New Year m6nlam.l They understood his excuse and did not
press him, but added that they would send him their wives and
children to be blessed the next morning.
In spite of these soft speeches, watchmen were posted a t
night around our camp, but the hours passed peacefully-so
calmly and silently, indeed, that, having pitched our tent apart
from the others, we did not hear our companions starting. I
then insisted on drinking our early hot tea, a custom that I seldom neglected and which, I a m certain, had much t o d o with
the good health that not only myself, but Yongden and all
our servants during previous journeys, have always enjoyed;
whereas so many Thibetan travellers whose habit it is to start
before dawn without any breakfast, even during the winter and
in the coldest regions, often suffer from severe attacks of fever
and other ailments.
But this most excellent and agreeable custom detained us,
and Yongden felt very uneasy a t remaining behind in that
unsafe country. We werc finishing our packing and I was
bending over some pieces of luggage when he suddenly
announced the arrival of robbers. I glanced in the direction
he pointed out, and saw a number of people coming toward

' The gathering to send good wishes, including the festivals taking place
at that time.

M Y JOURNEY T O LHASA
us; but when they arrived we discovered that they were women
and children.
I n spite of the spirits they had drunk, our visitors of the
previous evening had not forgotten to send their womenfolk
and youngsters to be blessed. T h e latter brought with them
a very acceptable present of chillies, which are a valuable article of exchange a t Lhasa, and also some butter and dried
fruits. So the dreaded robbers became in fact our benefactors.
T h e ceremony of blessing, packing our gifts, and some unavoidable gossip delayed us still further, and when we started we
had but little hope left of being able t o rejoin our companions.
I t was wonderful indeed t o have escaped so many dangers
of various kinds and to be there, just as I had planned it, in
Po yul, en route for Lhasa. Nevertheless, it is always presumptuous t o rejoice too soon about one's good luck or success. I
had not finished with the Popas. But they, too, were to see
more of the first foreign woman who walked through their
beautiful country, and while their acts were t o be quite commonplace and not in the least surprising, mine will probably
live long in the memory of those who witnessed them. Maybe
a legend will arise out of it all; and who knows if, in the future,
a learned student of folklore will not offer some interesting
commentary on the story, being far from suspecting the truth
of it.
At dusk that very evening, weary after a long tramp and
having definitely abandoned the hope of joining the travellers,
a t least that same night, we were following the rising course
of the Tongyuk river which, hidden by the thick foliage, roared
f a r beneath our narrow trail. I was walking ahead, looking for
a camping-place, when I saw seven men coming toward me. A
sudden foreboding seized me. I did not expect any god
from this meeting. Nevertheless, as Iang froid is the best of
weapons, and as many years' experience of adventurous life
had accustomed me to situations of this kind, I continued to
walk calmly, with the indifferent air of a tired woman pi1grim. One of the band stood in the middle of the narrow

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
track and asked me where I was coming from and where I
was going to. I muttered the names of some holy places,
and passed between him and the bushes. H e did not attempt
to stop me. I was already rejoicing inwardly a t the thought
that this time, once more, nothing would happen, when loo'king back, I saw that my son had stopped and was leaning
against a rock and speaking with the men. However, the
talk seemed friendly and the voices did not rise above the normal pitch. But I could not hear what was said.
Then I noticed that one of the tall fellows was taking something from the handkerchief of the lama. I knew that he had
a few coins in it. But I did not realize what was happening,
and I thought that the Popas were selling us something.
I only understood the truth when Yongden shouted t o me,
"They have taken my two rupees!"
The amount was not worth a thought, but I saw that some
of the robbers had laid their hands on the load he carried on
his back and were about t o open it.
The situation was growing serious. Fighting was out of
the question. Had I shot one of the men, the others would
have immediately stabbed my defenceless companion with the
long swords they carried thrust in their belts.
On the other hand, to let them examine the contents of
our bags would be dangerous. I n them were a few foreign
objects, unfamiliar to these savages, that would have appeared
strange in the possession of ragged pilgrims and would have
awakened suspicion as to our identity. And once on the track,
the robbers might perhaps search us and discover the gold
hidden under our clothes. What would follow? They might
kill us on the spot, or take us before one of their chiefs, who
would inform the nearest Lhasa government official if I confessed to be a foreigner in disguise, or would treat US as
thieves if I persisted in my incognito. In a word, he would
appropriate our gold and beat us both mercilessly.
Most of all, I feared being recognised, and thus prevented
from proceeding. At any rate, the robbers must be left with

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
the quickly forgotten impression that they had but met 1
poor lama pilgrim with his aged and beggar mother.
I n much less time than I have taken to write it, dl these
thoughts passed through my mind. I found the ploi of the
drama to be played on that rustic stage and I began my part.
Screaming a t the top of my voice, howling in utter despair,
with tears rolling on my cheeks, I lamented the loss of the
two rupees; the only, only money we had got. What was to
become of us? HOWwould we feed ourselves during the long
trip to Lhasa?
And these two rupees were sacred money indeed, the offering of a pious householder whose father had died and for whom
my son, the lama, had performed the funeral rites, dispatching
him t o the "Land of Bliss, the Western Paradise." Now these
miscreants had dared to steal it! B u t revenge would come!
Here I ceased t o weep and rose t o imprecation. The task
was not very difficult, well acquainted as I am with the various deities of the Thibetan pantheon.
I called upon the most dreaded ones, uttering their most
terrible names and titles.
There was Palden Dorjee Lhamo, who rides a wild horse
on a saddle made of a bloody human skin; there were the
Angry Ones who devour the flesh of men and feast on the fresh
brains served in their skulls; and the giant Frightful Ones,
companions of the King of Death, crowned with bones and
dancing on corpses. I conjured them all and implored them
t o avenge us.
Verily, I was the initiated and ordained wife of a black nag
Ips. His tutelar demons would not fail to avenge the harm
done t o his innocent son, who had taken to the pure saintly
path of the gclong.
I am a tiny woman with nothing dramatic in my appearance;
but a t that moment I felt myself rising t o the height of a
powerful tragedienne.
T h e forest had become darker and a light breeze had arisen
which caused a distant murmur to run under the foliageLugubrious and mysterious voices seemed to ipring out of

...

...

M Y J O U R N E Y TO LHASA
the unseen torrent below, climbing toward us and filling the
air with threatening words in an unknown language.
I was cool and did not fear the thieves-I had seen more
than seven together on other occasions-yet I could not suppress a thrill born of the occult atmosphere I myself had
created.
I was not alone in this. T h e seven robbers looked petrified,
some standing in one line against a rock behind my son, and
others lower down on the path-an
awe-struck group which
tempted my photographic inclinations. But the hour was not
ripe for snapshots.
Then one of the Popas cautiously moved toward me and
from a little distance uttered words of peace:
"Do not be angry, old mother. Here are your two rupees.
Do not weep. Do not curse us any more! We only want t o go
peacefully back t o our village."
So I allowed my anger and my despair to be cooled, and I
took the two coins with the air of one who recovers a unique
treasure.
My young companion had rejoined me. T h e thieves reverently requested his blessing, which he gave them, adding some
good wishes. We then parted.
There was no fear that the same band would retrace its steps
to rob us. But this new adventure was a warning, not to be
overlooked, to leave that specially dangerous area as soon as
possible.
That night we made a prolonged march in the forest, which
seemed still alive with the phantoms of the deities I had
summoned.
A slow rain, mixed with half-melted snow, began to fall, and
a melancholy waning moon rose late amongst the clouds. About
two o'clock in the morning we came to a place near the river
where there was a small level clearing. We were too tired to
proceed farther, and discussed the question of how t o camp
there. Would we dare to pitch our miserable tent, or did prudence command that we should sleep unsheltered on the wet
moss, hidden under the trees?

M Y JOURNEY T O LHASA
Supper was, once more, not to be thought of, although we
had neither eaten nor drunk since early morning, nearly twentyfour hours before. N o dry fuel could be found to boil our
Thibetan tea, and the dim light was not sufficient to find a place
amongst the rocks where we could safely fetch water from the
foaming torrent.
I thought we could a t least give ourselves the comfort of a
shelter. It was very doubtful that anybody would be traveling a t night in that bad weather. We therefore pitched the
small tent, and lay down in our wet damp clothes and muddy
boots on the damp ground.
T h e moon, which appeared and disappeared between the
clouds, cast fantastic moving shadows of branches and rocks on
the white cloth above our heads. T h e river talked loudly with
the many voices of a crowd. Invisible beings seemed to surround
us. 1 was thinking of those I had invoked
and, after all,
I did not altogether disbelieve in that mysterious world that
is so near t o those who have lived long in the wilds. My heavy
head resting on a small bag of trampa, I smiled to unknown
friends, and departed for dreamland.
It was not the first time, in the course of my peregrinations
in Thibet, that sham magic and robbers combined in the same
adventure. I may perhaps be allowed to relate here a rather
amusing incident which happened in the Desert of Grass some
eighteen months before my meeting with the Popas brigandsI had lingered that day f a r behind my men t o collect plants
which I meant to send t o the Botanical Society of France. It
was the rainy season. T h e grassy desert had become a sea of
mud. Under a dull sky low clouds rolled heavily, hiding the
summits, filling the valleys, and wrapping the steppes in a
grayish, melancholy shroud. I did not recognize the luminous
solitudes, the scenes of so many of my joyful rides some Yeara
before, and I should easily have been overpowered by the
depressing influence of that region of dampness, rain, and fog
across which we had wandered, shivering and feverish, for
weeks, had I not had many reasons to prevent me from giving
way to lassitude and discouragement.

...

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
M y present party numbered seven, including myself. T h e
six were Yongden, three servants, and a Chinese Musselman
soldier, going back t o his country with his Thibetan wife and
their little boy, whom I d o not reckon in the number.
Yongden and the woman had remained with me, helping me
to gather the plants, and the other men were far ahead of us.
The weather had now cleared. One could see, between the
clouds, the sun almost setting. It was time t o proceed t o the
camp, so we set out, riding slowly in full enjoyment of th'e
peaceful evening.
We had left the plain, and having turned the spur of a
range, entered a narrow valley, when I saw on my left three
men carrying guns slung over their shoulders, who silently
disappeared in a recess of the mountains. Who they were was
clear enough. Thibetan travellers, in that country, never fail
to salute one another with the customary greeting: "Oghiai!
Oghiai." l Then they habitually exchange questions about the
country whence they came and toward which they go. T h e
silence of these men looked very suspicious, not t o mention
the fact that they hid themselves, instead of walking along
the trail.
I went my way, pretending t o pay n o attention to them, but
feeling under my dress to see if my revolver was handy. I
whispered to the woman who rode near me, "Did you see
them?" "Yes," she answered. "They are robbers. Perhaps
they are the scouts of a gang."
1 looked a t a flower that grew on a rock, as if deeply interested in it, and pointing it out to Yongden, I called him t o
me. To show any sign of agitation which the brigands, who
were perhaps watching us, might interpret as fear, would
endanger our lives. The members of the special Order of
Lamas, whose dress I wore, are believed t o be fearless and to
possess occult powers, and this was our best safeguard.

' This means: llYou have undergone hardship," and the answer is:
"Lags, ma Kaa; kiai k, oghiail I have suffered no hardship but you have
had a hard time I"

M Y JOURNEY T O LHASA
"Have you seen the men in the ravine?" I asked my young
companion.
"No."
"Tbree men carrying guns-thieves, no doubt. The woman
has seen them. Have your revolver ready. As soon as we
reach the turning of the trail, and are out of sight, we will
ride on fast. We must reach the camp quickly and inform the
servants." As I had spoken in English, I did not fear being
overheard.
We had good beasts, and proceeded quickly. But what was
this? W e heard a shot in the direction of our people. We
rode faster and soon discovered our four tents pitched in the
high grass near a stream.
"Have you seen three men on your road?" I immediately
asked the servants who came to hold our horses. No, nobody
had seen any human being for the last ten days.
"I heard a shot."
They all hung their heads. "I have killed a hare," confessed the soldier. "We have no more meat, and my wife feels
weak."
I always strictly forbid my servants to hunt, but the soldier
was not my servant. I dropped the subject.
"This woman and I have seen three armed men who appeared t o hide from us," I said. "We must take special precautions to-night for the safety of the camp. It may be that
these three have companions in the vicinity."
"There they are!" exclaimed my head servant, Tsering, pointing out two men who stood on the crest of the hill above
the camp.
I looked a t them with my glasses. They were the very
men that we had seen on our way. Where was the third one?
Had he been dispatched t o call still other ruffians in order to
attack us? The two remained watching us.
"Let us take n o more notice of them," I said. "We will
devise a plan while drinking tea. P u t the guns and revolvers
in such places that they may be seen by the robbers, if there
226

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
are any besides these two. I t is good to let them know that
we are able to defend ourselves."
The tea was ready. One of the servants dipped a ladle into
the cauldron and threw a few drops of the liquid toward the
six quarters (including zenith and nadir), shouting "Drink tea,
0 Gods!" Then our bowls were filled, and, seated around the
fire, we began to discuss the situation.
The servants suggested that they might climb the neighbouring hills and from there try t o discover if any gang was in the
vicinity. I did not like this idea. T h e robbers might arrive
while they were roaming far from the camp, taking that opportunity to steal some beasts or other things. Yongden and I
alone would have a hard time to defend our belongings, even
if the three men whom we had seen, and who had good guns,
were the only ones t o attack us.
"I know a better way," said the soldier. "Let night come,
and when darkness hides us, I and two of the men will ambush
ourselves separately outside the camp a t three different points.
Another will remain here as watchman, and he will, according
to the Chinese custom, beat a drum or make some such noise
all night. T h e robbers will think that we are all in our tents,
and if they appear, one or another of those who are hidden
outside the camp will see them and shoot a t them when they
are between him and the tents. They will thus be surprised
and fired upon from behind and in front a t the same time!"
This appeared to be the best plan for a small party like
ours, and I decided t o follow it. W e tied the beasts as fast
a s we could, for when they d o not dare to fight openly, Thibetan
brigands fire volleys a t short range t o frighten the animals. If
some of these break their cords and escape, they chase them
away and seldom miss capturing a few.
Yongden insisted on erecting a barricade with the bags and
boxes containing our provisions. He meant it, of course, as a
shelter for us, but, as distinguished a literatus as my adopted
son may be, his knowledge does not extend t o the art of war.
AS it was built, it appeared to me that we should rather protect the barricade with our bodies than be protected by it,

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
but I am myself f a r from being an expert in these matters,
and n o great general happened to be there to enlighten us.
Seldom have I spent such a delightful night as that one,
when a t each minute we expected an attack! But it was not
this prospect which lent charm to my vigil.
Seated a t the entrance of his tent, a bowl of tea near him,
Tsering sang ballads of the land of Kham, thousands of years
old. H e marked the cadence b y striking with a small rod on
a Thibetan cauldron in which we boiled tea or soup over our
camp fire. T h e songs extol the high deeds of rustic knights
and the primeval forests in which arise shining peaks clad with
eternal snows. Robbers these heroes are, like those whose presence in our neighbourhood compelled us to keep a watch, like
the watchman himself, wh-I
was aware-had played his part
in more than one hot encounter, like the three others who are
now acting as sentinels, like everyone in that land of primitive
braves who know of n o field in which t o show their prowess
other than the trails followed by rich caravans.
Tsering had a fine voice. His accents were now heroic, now
mystic. T h e songs told not only of warriors, but of merciful
noddesses and holy lamas. Some of the stanzas finished with
b
ardent aspirations toward the spiritual awakening that puts
a n end t o fear and all sorrow. T h e vulgar cauldron itself
had risen to the level of that poetry; its metal sounded solemn
as a bell. Tsering was indefatigable; he went on with his
bewitching recital until dawn.
T h e sentinels came back benumbed by their ~rolongedstay
on the damp grass, and ran t o revive the fire and make tea*
Tsering's song had ceased, and the harmonious cauldron, fallen
back t o its utilitarian r d e , stood already filled with watery
among the flames. As for Yongden, he was fast asleep with
his head resting against his barricade.
The robbers had not dared to attack us, but they had
the night near our camp. As we were finishing eating Our
breakfast the three men appeared, each one leading a horse'
My boys leaped to their feet and ran to them.
228

M Y JOURNEY T O LHASA
'Who are you?" they asked. "We saw you yesterday. What
are you doing here?"
"We are hunters," answered the newcomers.
"Indeed! T h a t is good luck for us. We have no meat left.
We will buy some game from you."
The self-styled hunters looked embarrassed. "We have not
yet killed anything," they said.
M y servants did not need t o hear more.
"Do you know," asked Tsering of the three Thibetans, "who
is the noble, reverend lady who travels with such a beautiful
tent and wears a tliga (kind of vest worn by lamas) of golden
brocade ?"
"Would she be the phging Jetsunma who lived in Jakyendo?
We have heard about her."
"Yes, she is. And you understand that she does not fear
robbers any more than wild beasts or any other thing. One
who stole the least of her belongings would immediately be
discovered and caught.
"In that case, she has only t o look in a bowl full of water,
and a t once she sees in it the likeness of the thief, together with
the stolen articles and the place where both are t o be found."
"So it is really true," said the men. "All the dokpar say
white foreigners have this power."
"Nothing is more certain," confirmed my head servant.
Tsering was well acquainted with the story which was repeated among the cowmen, and he had cleverly taken advantage of it to frighten the robbers and to dissuade them from
going t o bring their friends to rob us a few days later.
About ten days after that incident, we stopped for the night
in front of an encampment of dokpas. I ietired to my tent
before night had fallen, and I heard many visitors in the camp.
They were bringing presents of milk and butter, and Yongden
told them that the lama lady had shut herself u p for religious
meditation and could not be disturbed, but that she would see
them the following morning. Then some whispering took
place, and a servant having called the dokpas t o drink tea near

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
the kitchen fire, they all moved away and I heard no more of
what was said.
A t dawn Yongden asked permission to enter my tent.
"I must," he said, "inform you, before the dokpar call again,
about the request they made yesterday. They say that some
of their horses have been stolen, they d o not know by whom,
and they wish you t o look in a bowl of water in order to describe t o them the thieves and the place where they are keeping
the stolen animals."
"What did you tell them?" I asked.
"I think," answered Yongden, "that maybe these men have
bad intentions. Perhaps they have not suffered any loss and
they only wish to know if what is said about that bowl of water
and the magic power of the 'white foreigner' is really true or not.
W h o knows whether they have not an eye on our fine Chinese
mules and would not be delighted t o steal them if they were
convinced that you could not trace the thieves, especially if
the robbery happened a t a few days' march from their own
encampment, a t a place where the tribe to which the brigands
belong could not be located? If you tell them that you have
seen their horses, and that none have been stolen, they will be
convinced that you have not been able to detect their lie, and
that, therefore, as you are powerless in magic, they may loot
us with impunity. I accordingly explained to them that YOU
could indeed see all that they want to know in a bowl of water,
but that the water needed is somewhat different from the
ordinary water just drawn from the stream. This water n~ust
be prepared by ceremonies and the recitation of a ritual that
lasts for three days. They understood this at once. 1 then said
that it was doubtful if you would stay here three days, because
you were called to Amdo for an important meeting with a great
lama. Also, as I know how much they shrink from the idea
of killing in cold blood a man who has only stolen property, I
added that as soon as you had discovered the thieves You
would hand them over to the Chinese magistrate to be put
death. I t would be, I said, in the power of no one to spare
their lives. The Towo [Wrathful Deity ] by whose power this

M Y JOURNEY T O LHASA
divinatory rite is performed would claim them as victims and,
if they were not sacrificed, he would turn his anger against
those who had requested the rite t o be performed, and he would
take their lives instead.
"On hearing this, they all became terrified. They declared
that they feared t o irritate the Towo, and preferred to look
after their horses in their own way, trying t o get a good compensation from the thieves."
I smiled a t his ruse, and when the dokpas came with some
more presents, I repeated to them the very things Yongden
had told them the day before, so that they definitely gave
up all idea of requesting the celebration of the too tragic rite.
The head servant, Tsering, had travelled in his early youth
as far as Tachienlu, and had been in the service of foreigners.
As a result of these associations he had acquired a skepticism
which he liked to display before his more credulous companions. During the next few days, he did not cease making the
incident a subject of his jokes, and laughing a t the simpletons
who had been so easily fooled.
By that time we had reached the shore of the large blue
lake, the most holy Koko-nor, worshipped by thousands of
Thibetans and Mongolians. T h e rains were over. I could
again see that wonderful inland sea, bathed in bright sunshine,
and its rocky islands, the largest of which has been for centuries the dwelling of a few anchorites.
Once when I was coming back to the camp after having
bathed in the lakc, I saw Tsering leaving Yongden's tent and
hastily puttins something in his breast ~ o c k e t . H e looked a
little agitated and proceeded quickly toward the kitchen place
without noticing me. The same evening Yongden told me that,
having been called away on some business while counting
money, he had left his purse on a box in his tent and had
forgotten about it. When he returned, three rupees were
missing.
I did not tell him about Tsering. I only scolded him for
his carelessness, and the thing ended there.

M Y JOURNEY T O LHASA
Three days later I arranged on my camp table a few blades
of grass and some rice. I lighted several incense sticks, and in
the middle I placed a bowl full of water. Then I waited until I
knew that the servants were in their tent, undressed and lying
down, if not yet asleep. A t that time, according to their custom,
all their most precious belongings, and especially their money,
would be hidden beneath whatever they used as a pillow.
F o r a while I rang the small bell and beat the tambourine
used b y lamas in their religious ceremonies. Then I called
Tsering.
"Tsering," I said with a stern voice, when he appeared,
"three rupees are missing from Lama Yongden's purse. I have
seen them under your head when you were lying down. Go
and fetch them!"
T h e skeptic dropped his manner of sneering incredulity. He
turned pale, his teeth were chattering. He bowed down three
times a t m y feet and without a word went to the servants' tent
and brought back the money.
" ~ e t s u nKusho rimpoclte," he asked, trembling, "will the
Towo kill me!"
"No," I answered, gravely. "I shall d o what is needed to
spare your life."
H e bowed down again and went away.
Then, alone in my small tent, open to the silent desert and
the bright starry sky, I took once more the lamaist bell and
the drum of mystic rites and, led by their archaic music, I
meditated on the strength of ancestral faiths in the human
mind and on the deep and mysterious side of the farce that
had just been enacted.
I n Thibet, adventures with robbers have always a certain
picturesqueness, of the kind, however, that one does not want
in too large a quantity, so that I was glad to meet no more
ruffians on my way during the days that followed my dramatic
performance in the forest.
W e were now nearing Tongyuk, where a zong has been tunningly placed a t the intersection of two roads for the examina-

M Y JOURNEY T O LHASA
tion of travellers proceeding to Lhasa. Like many things in
Thibet, this cleverness is a little childish, and a pedestrian can
dodge it without making extraordinary efforts.
From Tongyuk one can reach Giamda, the capital of the
Kongbu province, by a much more direct track than that which
winds far t o the south touching the Brahmaputra. I have
been told that it crosses uninhabited regions, and for that
reason travellers prefer the long bend on the south. Time has
but little value in the East, and the safety and convenience
of a road are the main concern of all Thibetan travellers. I t is
also possible to travel northwards from Tongyuk toward the
grassy solitudes.
Although only a few of them are shown on the maps, Thibet
is crossed by a large number of tracks, some easy, some rough;
and, save in exceptional circumstances, the future explorers of
the unsurveyed regions need not fear the necessity of cutting
their way with axes through impassable jungles. What I say
applies, of course, only t o people who can travel according
to the native fashion, as I have done on all my journeys. If
one needs large tents, tables, chairs, tinned Western food, an
oven to bake the bread, and a gramophone which some explorers carried in their luggage, then perhaps he will get into
trouble with the rustic Thibetan paths, and also, perhaps, with
the sturdy hillmen who have made them.
The toll bridge of Tongyuk spans a narrow but rather deep
mountain stream, which throws itself into the river Tongyuk
a little farther on. It is cleared by a gate, and near by is the
house of the bridge-keeper. When we knocked a t the gate,
the latter set it just ajar to look a t us. Without leaving him
the time to put any question, we asked, hurriedly, as if in
great anxiety:
"Are our friends there?"
"Which friends ?" enquired the man.
"That large party of Sera and Depung monks."
"They left this morning."
"What a pity!" we both lamented.
The keeper had opened the door a little more. We took

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
immediate advantage of this to step in, continuing the while
t o make the poor fellow giddy with our questions. We wished
t o know if the trapas had not left a message for us, and also
a bag containing some dried meat which belonged to us.
Yongden eyed the Thibetan in a suspicious way, and the latter endeavoured t o convince him that n o one of the party had
handed him anything, protesting that he was too honest to
keep the property of a lama!
MY companion, intent upon the question of the dried meat,
seemed t o have forgotten everything else, especially the fact
that travellers had t o apply a t the zong to get permission to
proceed. His pretence was played in a masterly fashion. Yet
1 thought that the keeper, although he looked bewildered,
might still bear his duty in mind and remind us of the permission we had to secure before proceeding farther. I asked
in a whining voice: "Has the plinpo given some solra [alms]
t o our friends?"
"I d o not know," was the answer.
"Well," I replied, "I shall try t o get some. My son, the
lama, has hurt his foot. W e have fallen back and have no
food left, now that this bag of dried meat is not here."
"About the bag I will know through a mo," said Yongden,
sternly. "My mos never fail t o be true."
t Yes, yes," the suspected innocent gladly agreed, "mo gyab,
(

lama. You can see the plinpa afterwards."
66
I am going a t once," I declared. "Maybe he will be kind
to me."
This was a matter of indifference t o the keeper.
I went, and on nearing the official's residence 1 met a rather
well-dressed man. I saluted him most ~olitely,and enquired
if I could be shown the way to the ponpo.
"What d o you want?" he asked.
I explained that my son, a trapa from Sera monastery, belonged t o the party which had crossed Tongyuk the day before,
and that, owing t o his bad foot, we had lingered behind, and
were now making haste to join our companions, since we had
n o food. I then produced with affected shyness two flankah

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
to be offered, I said, to the ponpo when my son, the lama,
came, which would be very soon. At present he was enquiring
at the gate-keeper's about a bag that our friends should have
left behind for us, and in the meantime I wished t o beg a solra.
The man snatched the two silver coins-I expected this!and told me to wait. Then he went away. A few minutes
later a servant brought me a small bowl full of tsampa and,
from a distance, I heard the voice of the one who had taken
my money commanding: "Take her down. I t is useless for
the t ~ a p at o come here."
So the servant went ahead. What he said to the gatekeeper I d o not know. I found the latter rejoicing proudly
because Yongden, whose mos were infallible, had discovered
that our friends had not handed our dried meat t o him! I
deemed it wiser not t o remain to investigate the identity of the
man whom I had seen near the zong.
Once more we had escaped. W e made haste t o be off, which
did not appear strange, since we were supposed to be anxious
to overtake our party, and that evening we camped in a beautiful forest. Only the toll bridge of Giamda now remained on
our way. But this was still a long distance ahead, and we had
time enough before us to devise some plan.
I was heartily thankful for our lucky meeting with the
party of travellers. I n the first place, they had prevented the
Popas from robbing and perhaps injuring us. I n the second
place they had made our crossing over the river Ygong both
easy and speedy. And lastly, although we were no longer with
them, we had been able to make use of them to get smoothly
through the Tongyuk Post. M a y they be justly rewarded for
their aid!
We were now nearing the end of the track which is called
the "Po Southern Road" ("Po lho lam"), a borderland region
that joins the "Kongbu Southern Road" ("Kongbu lho lam").
I t is mostly covered by forest, and villages are scarce. Although the inhabitants of that zone have no better name than
those of the upper country, we passed through it without any
trouble.

M Y J O U R N E Y TO L ' H A S A
T h e women of this part of Thibet wear, as do those of Po y ~ l
a fur dress over which they slip a kind of large chasuble, made
of bearskin for the rich, and of dark goatskin for the common
lot. Both garments are worn, like all fur in Thibet, with the
hair inside. M e n also wear a scapular, but it does not reach
farther than the waist, while those of the women fall nearly
t o the knees.
W h a t struck me was the sight of the women with black
round felt hats of a Western-like shape. Had these been
trimmed with a ribbon, a feather, or a bunch of flowers,
they could have been shown in the window of any millinery
shop.
More remarkable still were the mournful and pathetic tunes
which I heard along my way. At first I was led to think that
they belonged to some peculiar religious rites performed in
the depth of the forest. But circumstances disclosed a less
poetic truth.
Hearing from a distance a slow, poignant, and really impressive dirge, I walked across the jungle in the direction of the
invisible choir. As I progressed, my imagination already pictured a funeral or some still more dreadful spectacle. Slightly
excited, as the traveller may well be on nearing an interesting
situation, I strode through the thicket and reached the border
of a clearing. There were the mournful singers-about thirty
women clad in goatskin, wearing the national black felt hatT h e work in which they were engaged had nothing of a dmmatic character. They were merely carrying logs of wood
which the males of their tribe had felled higher upon the hill,
and the dirge helped them t o keep step when the heavy load3
were borne by several of them together. The words of the song
were not especially melancholy. Where could that strange
tune have originated? I never heard anything like it in other
parts of Thibet.
T h e women rested in the clearing, and a loud prattling took
the place of the singing. Their gossip occupied the wood-carriers enough to prevent them from noticing me through the
foliage. I remained hidden, for had I shown myself 1 could

4

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA

not have avoided having to talk. Also I should have heard no
more of the song.
After a while, the black-capped village girls and housewives
got up, loaded their logs, and the melodious lament of their
deep contralto voices spread again through the forest.
I followed them a t a distance as far as the path where I
joined Yongden. While I was away, two travellers who were
returning t o the Ygong district had asked him to make mos.
He had just finished with these and had received his honorarium, some tsampa and two handfuls of dried apricots.
When we emerged from the P o forests, we reached an open
country formed by the wide intersection of several valleys. A
number of important villages were scattered in this large area,
which is partly cultivated and partly left as pasture land. T h e
scenery is exceedingly beautiful and looks a little-but
on a
much larger scale-like some landscapes in the French or Swiss
Alps.
The region extending t o the north is still unexplored. I felt
very much tempted to undertake a scouting tour over the
ranges which rose between the Tongyuk river and the Giamda
river.
Time, unfortunately, was short. I should have to make haste
if I wanted to be in Lhasa to witness the New Year festivals.
I also feared to attract the attention of the villagers if I was
seen wandering out of the main paths. What could I answer,
in that case, when asked where I was going? I n Thibet, no one
roams for pleasure. Thibetans deem it absurd to walk if not
compelled t o do so by some definite business.
When the people of the borderland hear about foreigners
climbing the hills, travelling through distant lands or merely
taking photographs, they cannot believe that this is done for
personal satisfaction only. According to their opinion, explorers
and tourists are all working for a salary paid by their governments. What sensible man, think the Thibetans, would take
the trouble to move when he could remain seated a t home?
Only the necessity of earning money, or the desire t o acquire
religious merit, could induce them to do such a thing.

M Y JOURNEY T O LHASA
H a d 1 know the name of a monastery or of a eong situated
in that direction, I could have used it to explain my journey,
But I did not even know where t o find the track which led to
tile opposite side of the range. I was not even certain that
such a track existed; I only suspected it,
Nevertheless, I started, but a t night, in order to be out of
sight when the villagers went t o work in their fields the neat
morning.
I reached a wooded ridge, descended it, and, having climbed
another one, I came in sight of snowy crests. I had walked
for two days, and could be nearly certain that I was about to
reach the Giamda river. On the other hand, I desired to see
the Brahmaputra, and as I have just said, time was short-too
short to allow me t o turn back south toward the Brahrnaputra, after reaching the Giamda river, and then having to retrace
my steps t o reach Lhasa via Giamda Zong.
On the evening of the second day, while Yongden boiled the
tea, I was still pondering over the itinerary I should choose,
when suddenly, like a ghost in an olden tale, a lama appeared
on the scene. W e had not heard him coming. In fact, he did
not seem to have come. One would almost have believed
that he had just sprung out of the ground in front of us.
Thibetans who wear dokpar boots with soft flexible soles do
not make any noise in walking, yet there was something so
unexpected, so instantaneous in the apparition of the lama, that
Yongden and I looked a t him in wonder.
H e was dressed in the very lain garb of the g ~ m p ~ h e n J ~
which is somewhat different in shape from that worn by the
inmates of the monasteries. T h e ten-treng was hung round
his neck, and the long iron-tipped staff which he carried was
surmounted by a trident.
H e sat down near the fire without uttering a word, and did
not even answer our polite greeting, "Kale jou den jags."'
Yongden tried, but without success, t o engage him in conversation. We then concluded that, according to a custom often
followed by ascetics, he had made a vow of silence.

' Thibetan

238

equivalent of "Be seated, please."

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
This mute stranger, who looked a t me fixedly, proved embarrassing. I should have liked t o see him get up and go away,
or do something that was natural to travellers-eat or drink.
But he had n o baggage with him, not even a bag of tsampa,
which was an extraordinary thing in this country devoid of
inns. What did he feed on? Seated cross-legged beside his
trident, which he had stuck in the ground, he looked like a
statue with only the eyes alive. Night had fallen. Was he
going to stay?
The tea was ready; the enigmatic wayfarer drew from beneath his robe a skull fashioned to serve as a bowl, and held
it out to Yongden. As a rule, into these lugubrious cups used
only by followers of the tantrik sects, no beverages except
spirits are poured. M y young companion made a gesture of
excuse, saying, "Gompchen, we have no chang.l W e never
drink any."
"Give me what you have," replied the lama, opening his
mouth for the first time. "It is all the same t o me."
Sunk again in silence, he drank and ate a little tsampa. H e
did not seem to be going away, neither did he appear t o want
to sleep by the fire.
Suddenly, without departing from his immobility, he addressed me:
"Jetsunma," he said, "what have you done with your tentreng, your Zen, and with your 'rings of the initiate'?"
My heart stopped beating. This man knew me! H e had
seen me dressed as a gompchcnnta, either in Kham, in the
northern solitudes, in Amdo, or in Tsang-where, I did not
know. But his words showed clearly that I was not a stranger
to him.
Yongden tried t o prevaricate. H e did not know, he stammered, what the lama meant
. his mother and he.
But the strange traveller did not give him time to invent a
story.
"Go away!" he commanded in an imperious tone.

..

' Beer or

barley spirite.

...

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
I had recovered my sang-froid. Deception was useless, I
could not recall this man's features or anything else about
him, but as it was evident that I had been detected, it was
better to brave the situation out, for this lama probably would
have n o interest in denouncing me.
"GO," I told Yongden, "light a fire for yourself a little
further off." H e took a handful of wood, a blazing ember,
and went away.
''DOnot t r y t o remember, Jetsunma," said the ascetic to
m e when we were alone. "I have as many faces as I desire,
and you have never seen this one."
T h e conversation which followed was a long one on subjects pertaining to Thibetan philosophy and mysticism. Finally
he arose and, staff in hand, vanished like a phantom, as he had
come. His footsteps made n o sound upon the stony path. He
entered the jungle, and seemed t o melt away in it.
I called Yongden and put an end t o his questions by saying
laconically: "This gompchen knows us, though I cannot remember having seen him, but he will not denounce us.)'
Then I lay down, making a pretence of sleeping so that
I might be left undisturbed with the thoughts that my talk
with the lama had aroused. Soon a rosy light spread in the
sky and day broke. I had been listening to the mysterious
traveller the whole night long without noticing how time passedW e revived the fire and prepared our humble breakfast.
T h e nature of m y conversation with the lama should have
completely reassured me as to the possibility of denunciation
by a man of his character. But my mind was overtired by
months of painful watching and anxiety, and I could not entirely prevent fear from creeping back into it. 1 did not fee'
any longer inclined to continue toward the Giamda valleys
By going forward in that direction, the strange gompchfn had
more or less answered my enquiry about the existence of a
way across the range. Unless he was going to some anchoritic
dwelling hidden in the recesses of the mountain, he would
probably descend the slopen of the Giamda basin. Moreover'

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
though I had been deeply interested in our nocturnal talk, I
preferred to avoid following in the steps of anyone who knew
me.
"Let us turn back," I said to Yongden. "We will cross the
Temo pass and see the large Temo monastery. You may be
able to purchase there the warm dress which you need so
badly."
We went down again into the broad valley, followed it
toward the head, skirting several villages, and finally reached
the foot of the Temo pass. I preferred it to the Nyima pass
situated to the southeastward, because the road to the latter
has been surveyed, which is not the case with the track crossing
the Temo.
At dusk we reached a large well-built house that stood
alone in the pastures near the river. I n spite of its comfortable appearance this massive building of grey stone looked
rather disquieting. Perhaps its surroundings of densely wooded
black ranges were responsible for that impression, or it was
perhaps its greyish colour. Be this as it may, hospitality was
immediately granted to us and we were led upstairs to a large
and comfortable but dim room. Yongden and I boiled some
soup and we had begun t o eat it when a lama entered, followed by the mistress of the house, who carried his few packages. We understood that we were t o be given a companion
for the night. This did not please us, but there was no way
of avoiding it. T h e apartment in which we had been allowed
to stay was the best after the host's private quarters. Traders
returning from Lhasa occupied the other rooms, and in putting
two lamas together the housewife had shown courtesy t o both.
The traveller appeared to be a polite and quiet man. H e
spread out his carpet a t the end of the room opposite to us.
He then approached the fire t o boil his tea. Politely Yongden
told him that he could dispense with that trouble, for soup was
ready and we would make tea afterward. The lama accepted
the invitation, a t the same time producing some bread and
other provisions which he placed at Yongden's disposal to add

LMY J O U R N E Y T O L H A S A
t o the meal he was to share with us. Having done this, he sat
down and began to eat.
Thibetan custom required me to remain humbly at some distance, and I took advantage of this t o observe from my dark
corner the lama taking his meal near the blazing fire.
A gomthagl slung across the shoulders of his Chinese travelling robe, some other details of his dress, and the staff
mounted with a trident which he had thrust upright between
two boards of the floor on entering the room, revealed to me
that he belonged to one of the "Red Cap" sects, most likely the
Z o g ~chen.
T h e mystic dung khatang2 lighted by the flames leaping
from the hearth, cast moving shadows on the red wall. It
brought t o that commonplace country house something of the
fascinating occult atmosphere of the Thibetan ascetic dwellings
and reminded me of other anchorites with whom I had sojourned or whom I had visited on my way. I t would have
especially recalled the gompchen to whom I had, a few days
before, listened a whole night through, had I forgotten him,
which was far from being the case.
B u t aside from that symbolic implement, common to all
Tantrik lamas, our new companion had nothing of the silent
mystery of the one who had so unexpectedly joined us in the
forest. H e turned out to be a most pleasant and well-read
literatus of the Kham province, quite ready to converse.
At first I listened to him from a distance, as my disguise
compelled me to do, but after a while, seeing that Yongden
could not follow his really very erudite and highly philosophical
colleague, and that I should thus miss hearing the latter's view
on a question which interested me, I forgot prudence and
intruded upon the lama's talk. The stranger did not appear
A kind o f sash used as a binding and support by the lamu, klonging
' the
to lnystic sects, w h o spend hours in meditation and who often remain
whole night in the peculiar sitting pastare, cross-legged like the i m W s of
the Buddha. When travelling this sash is worn across the shoulden.
' A staff surmounted by
trident. Sivaite ascetics of India likcwir
carry a trident, but the Thibetan shape is somewhat different.

242

M Y JOURNEY TO L H A S A
astonished a t the knowledge-quite uncommon for one of her
kind-showed by the poorly dressed lay woman who seated
herself before him. Deeply absorbed in his subject, he perhaps
did not pay much attention to his questioners.
We remained f a r into the night, quoting from the d d books,
offering explanations, referring to the commentaries of famous
authors. I was delighted.
But when I awoke, before the daybreak, the fear which
had tormented me so much a t the beginning of my journey
made me tremble again. It was not enough that I had been
recognized by the mysterious gompchen. I had now imprudently shown myself well acquainted with Buddhist and Tantrik philosophies. Perhaps I had made the lama who spent
the night with us suspicious! What a fool I had been! What
would come of it?
. Should I reach Lhasa?
It was in this cheerless mood that I began the climb toward
the Tempo pass, after having left the philosopher traveller still
asleep in the grey stone house.
We crossed the pass without difficulty, though the snow
was rather deep near the summit. T h e road lay through
woods all the way. It was good, but it is a long tramp from
the top of the pass t o the foot of the hill, on the slope looking
towards the Brahmaputra. Temo, an important place with
several gompas and Zlzakangs, besides the large monastery, was
reached a t dusk.
We pitched our tent in an out-of-the-way spot in the fields,
when we felt confident that village people were shut indoors
and asleep. T h e moon was full, the sky was wonderfully clear,
and a t the same time a bank of mist, about tcn or twelve feet
from the ground, extended all over the valley and created the
bizarre illusion of an immense veil shrouding the earth.
After a peaceful rest I awoke early, or rather I thought that
I awoke, for, most probably, it was only a dream born of
my anxieties and of the recent meetings. T h e day had just
dawned: I saw a lama standing before me. H e did not resemble the gompchen nor the literatus I had left on the other side
of the range. He was clothed in thc white habit of the resky-

..

...

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
angr,' his head was bare, and a

long tress of hair fell to his

heels.
"Jetsunma," he said t o me, "this dress of a poor laywomrn,
and the r61e of old mother which you have adopted, do not suit
you a t all. You have taken on the mentality proper to the
part. You were braver when you wore your zen and your
ten-treng. You must put them on again later, when you have
been to Lhasa. .
You will get there. D o not fear. . . 9 ,
H e smiled with a sort of benevolent sarcasm: "Jigs med
naljorma nga [ I , a fearless y6gini]," he quoted, from a poem
I was very fond of reciting.
I wanted t o answer him, but now I really began to wake.
T h e first rays of the rising sun gleamed upon my forehead,
the space before me was empty, and through the open curtain
of the small tent I only saw, far away, the shining golden roofs
of the Temo gompa.

..

.

Most luckily, Yongden found, a t the very first place of call,
all that he needed for provisions and clothing. I t was quite
t h e ! His monastic dress was in rags, and now that we were
out of the cover of the forests he felt the cold a t night. He
got an old lama travelling robe, which fitted him well enough;
the material was of good quality, 60 that, clothed in it, my
companion looked like a well-to-do pilgrim whose dress had
been worn out during the journey. A kind man presented him
with a goatskin for a carpet to sleep on, a luxury which he
much appreciated.
A t T e m o I heard for the first time some news which caused
me great anxiety. T h e Penchen lama of Tashilhumpo had
fled from his residence. Soldiers had been sent to capture
him
. and what had happened afterward was not known
by those who told us the story.
T h e Penchen Tashi lama, as I have explained in the introduction of this book, had been my host, and a very kind one.
For years I corresponded with his mother, who never failed

..

' A peculiar kind of Thibetan ascctia, who are adepts in the art
generating internal heat, as I have ~nentionedbefore.

244

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
to send me, a t the beginning of each winter, a pair of felt
boots and a bonnet of yellow brocade which she had embroidered and sewn herself.
How could it be that the mighty spiritual lord of Shigatze
had become a fugitive? Truly, I did not altogether forget that
he was far from being in good odour a t the court of Lhasa.
His avowed sympathy for China and his aversion to the military expenditures had greatly displeased the Thibetan king.
I knew that on several occasions heavy contributions had been
exacted from him, but I had never thought that he might be
forced to fly from Thibet, where he is worshipped as the incarnation of a most high spiritual entity. Later on, I got some
details about that truly Oriental political drama. T h e story
may be of interest.
As years elapsed, the hatred of the Dalai lama and of the
Court party, won over to the British influence, had increased
against the Tashi lama. H e had been ordered t o levy more
money in his Province and hand it over t o the Lhasa government. People from whom I got these details said that the
officials dispatched t o collect it could not gather the amount
required, and that the Tashi lama proposed t o the Dalai lama
to go himself on a collecting round in Mongolia, where his personal prestige might achieve the result which had not been attained by his envoys in the already impoverished villages of
Tsang.1 This permission had been refused, and the Penchen
Tashi lama was asked to go t o Lhasa.
A new house was built for him in the park of Norbu ling, the
habitual residence of the Dalai lama. (I saw it, apparently
unfinished, in a rather remote part of the estate.) It was said
that a jail was attached to the house, and that it was on learning of the imminent danger which threatened him that the
Tashi lama had run for his life with a few followers across
the northern wilds.
Did the Court of Lhasa really mean to imprison the Grand

' Tsnng, a large Thibetan province situated to the west o f the 0 province whose capital is Lhasa. T h e capital o f Tsang is Shigatze, where
stantls the great monastery of Tashilhumpo.
245

M Y JOURNEY T O LHASA
Lama of Tashilhumpo? None but the few who are in its
political secrets can say for certain, but the story has nothing
absolutely improbable about it.
T h e revenge of the Court party on those who had sided with
the Chinese after the latter had been driven out from Thibet
seems t o have been sometimes cruel. I have been told of a
Grand Lama who, on account of his dignity as a "tulku," could
not be openly executed. T h e poor man was imprisoned, and
allowed t o die of starvation. But the members of his ecclesiastic household, dignitaries of his monastery, were tortured, iron
nails being trust in their bodies day after day until death
came.
ISthere any exaggeration in such stories? I do not know.
A t about the same time, a member of the high Thibetan
nobility who as a state minister had supported the Chinese
was killed a t the Potala. It is said that he was summoned
before the ruler, who had just returned to the capital. There
he was first stripped of his silken robes, beaten mercilessly,
then bound, and thrown down the long flight of steps which
go from the top of the Potala to the foot of the hill. He was
still alive when he reached the bottom and was there executed
on the post. His son, having heard about the dreadful execution, and foreseeing his own fate, attempted to flee, but was shot
as he rode away.
As a peculiar specimen of the Thibetan mentality 1 will add
that the widow of the unfortunate minister, his daughter, and
his daughter-in-law, were all three given as wives to a favourite
of the ruler who, being ennobled, received the title and the
estate of the late minister.
1 deem it useless to give any name. The man who has taken
the succession of the late Thibetan lord is perhaps quite innocent of his tragic end.
I can state that, even now, more than twelve years after the
victorious revolt against China, three high ecclesiastical dignitaries are still detained as state prisoners at Lhasa. One of
1

One of those larnairt dignitaries whom foreign writen call
properly "incarnated lamas" and "living Buddhas."

'"

M Y J O U R N E Y TO LHASA
them has been given as ward to the commander-inshief.
Another was sent to Ngabod shapC, and the third t o Lon chen
shatag-since the latter's death his son has taken his place as
warden. These three lamas, who are gyarongpas-that
is t o
say, natives of the tribes established in China-have worn the
cangue ever since they were sentenced: and unless another
revolution frees them, will die with their necks in these heavy
wooden collars.
In such circumstances, the Tashi lama could find abundant
reason for fearing the hospitality that his high lamaist colleague
offered him. But his apprehensions were still more justified if
town talk a t Lhasa was true. It was said that three or four
noblemen of the Tsang province were then imprisoned in the
part of the Potala prison that is reserved for "quality," in connection with the tax-levy affair.
But to return to the Tashi lama. Whether entirely true, o r
even only partly true in its detail, the account of his flight, as I
heard it, was really dramatic.
For nearly two years, one of his faithful friends with whom
I am personally acquainted had scoured the country disguised
as a pilgrim in order to discover the roads that offered the
greatest safety for a speedy flight. H e had not yet come back
from his last tour when the Tashi lama, deeming that things
had now grown too threatening t o admit of further delay, left
Shigatze hurriedly. His friend, the lama Lobzang, arrived there
the following day. H e ran after his master, but was compelled
to turn back because of a fresh fall of snow which completely
bloclced the pass.
Thibet was no longer safe for him. H e crossed the Indian
border, but his movements were known. Telegrams were sent
in all directions, giving orders t o arrest him. Nevertheless, he
succeeded in sailing for China a few hours before the order t o
seize him had reached the harbour.
As for the Tashi lama, a Thibetan official in charge of a small
zon (that of Reading or another in the same region) had
detected him amongst a party passing near his residence. Fearing to make a mistake, afraid also to lay his hands on the

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
exalted person of 0 d pa med, before whom all Thibetans,
Mongolians, Manchurians, all lamaists of Siberia and even of
the far away shores of the Volga, prostrate themselves with
utmost reverence, he dispatched a messenger to Lhasa to inform
the ruler.
A t Lhasa, everybody believed the Tashi lama was at Shigatze, and the inhabitants of that town, as well as the monks
of the Tashilhumpo monastery, were not aware of his fight.
When the official dispatched by the Dalai lama had astertained that the Tashi lama was truly gone, three hundred s~]diers were mustered under a depung,' and were ordered to
bring back the fugitive. B u t much time had been lost. The
Tashi lama and his companions had doubtless excellent horses.
I remembered the large stable full of fine beasts which I visited
a t Shigatze, and could easily understand that the regiment
reached the Chinese border after the Tashi lama was safe on
the other side.
NO need t o add that the simple account of a political drama
could not satisfy the mind of Oriental masses. The flight of
the Tashi lama was only a few months old when I reached
Lhasa, only to find that it had already become a legend. After
he had fled from Shigatze, said some, the lama had left there
a perfect likeness of himself, a phantom who acted exactly as
he used t o do, and thus all those who were not in the secret
were deceived. It was only when the Tashi lama was safely in
China that the phantom vanished. But others told the tale
in a different way. According t o them (and they were many)
it was the phantom which had fled t o China, and the real
Penchen Rimpoche was still a t Shigatze, invisible to his enemies, but visible t o his faithful subjects and the pilgrim
devotees.
1 was to learn all these details later on, but the first vague
news received a t Temo made me fear that my host was not
yet safe. I thought of his good mother, my friend. What had
become of her in that storm? This also I did not know'

' Depung: a Thibetan
248

colonel or general.

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
namely, that before her beloved son had fled, death had liberated the kind lady from all her earthly troubles.
As I proceeded toward the Brahmaputra, brooding sadly
over this strange event, a sudden memory came back t o me.
A little more than two years before, while I was staying a t
Jakyendo, a bard from Kham chanted for me the famous
Thibetan Iliad, the poem of "King Gesar of Link." I n the
course of his recital the man related t o me some old prophecies
connected with the coming of the northern warrior Messiah,
expected by the Thibetans. One of them actually announced
that the Tashi lama would leave Thibet, proceeding t o the
north.
I listened with the utmost incredulity, and jokingly asked
him in how many centuries the event would take place. M y
bard, who was a rather enigmatic person, seriously declared
that I should see the fulfilment of the prophecy, and that the
Tashi lama would leave Shigatze before two and a half years
had gone by.
This seemed t o me still more improbable, even absurd, and
yet there I was, in the heart of Thibet, hearing about the
flight into the northern solitudes of the mystic lord of Tashilhumpo,l which actually happened just two years and one
month after the prophecy.
Strange coincidence? But what next? Would the other
prophecies also prove true? Would a hero arise in the mythical Shambala, which modern Thibetans identify with Siberia,
surround himself with an army of stern, invincible soldiers
A dream, maybe, but
and unite all Asia under one rule?
thousands, nay, millions, dream it in the East.
From Temo, we reached the sandy banks of the Brahmaputra. The large majestic river, in its setting of high hills,

...

1

The Thibetans of Tsang, alluding to these prophecies, were singing at

that time:
Da tsoi Lama ling red
Lamai ckipa tirng red
Lung gi tengla chip nes
Z'/rurgod ylrl la pheb Jong.

Our Lama is a cloud
His horse is the wind
Riding on the wind
Hc is gone to the land of Thurgijd
(The Chinese Turkestrrn)

.

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
breathes a spirit of calm and peace which takes a firm hold
of one's inner consciousness. Landscapes have a language of
their own, expressing the soul of the things, lofty or humble,
which constitute them, from the mighty peaks to the smallest
of the tiny flowers hidden in the meadow's grass. The Brahmaputra spoke of serenity, and in this serenity all our preoccupations, fears, and cares were drowned.
Amongst the interesting sights on our road, before we turned
northward, following the Giamda river upstream, were parties
numbering hundreds of B6n pilgrims who circumambulated the
Kongbu Bon hill,' one of the most sacred of the holy places of
their religion.
T h e Bons are followers of the faith that prevailed in Thibet
before the introduction of Buddhism. Their beliefs may originally have been much like those of the shamanists of Siberia,
but it is most difficult t o be certain of this, for at the time
when primitive Bon doctrines existed in Thibet, writing was
probably not known in the country. Consequently, there is
n o hope of finding any genuine B6n scriptures. The BBns
themselves affirm that they possess books of a high antiquity,
written before Buddhism entered Thibet. There may be something true in these affirmations, but up t o the present no authentic proofs have come t o light. Nowadays Bons resemble,
in so far as their religious practices are concerned, the old ''Red
Caps" sect, called liingrna-riingma ("the most ancient of the
ancients"), with the difference that they slaughter animals for
sacrifices. As for their monasteries, they have copied those of
the lamas; their clergy wear a habit identical with that of the
lamaists and they style themselves lamas as well.
I n brief, the White Bijns are merely lamaists who have kept
a part of the old religious ~ractices,just as the lamaists have
incorporated in Buddhism an almost equal part of the same.
T h e Black Bijns are more original and nearer the primitive
shamanism. Most of them are only ignorant, vulgar sorcerers,
but a few interesting and intelligent men may be found here
and there in their midst,who hold peculiarly bold

' Kongbu Bon
250

ri.

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
views, and some of them are believed to be powerful magicians.
However, the common run of the Bons distinguish themselves
from the lamaists only by keeping their sacred edifices on the
left when circumambulating these, whereas the lamaists keep
them on the right. One may add that, instead of the formula
"Aum Mani Padme hum" recited by the lamaists, the Bons
repeat "Aum Matriye' salendu," which some travellers have
understood as "Matri Matriz da dzu." Space forbids treating
the subject in fuller detail.
Many of the pilgrims went round the mountain, prostrating
themselves a t each step, that is t o say that, stretching their
arms as they lay on the ground, and marking with their fingers
the length they had covered with their bodies, they would
then get up and stand a t the exact place which their fingers
had touched, after which they would again prostrate themselves and measures their length once more, and so on, all the
way.l
Lamaists perform these repeated prostrations around the
monasteries containing especially holy relics, such as the grave
of Tsong Khapa. Durino my stay a t Lhasa I saw men circum?
ambulating the sacred city in this fashion. One even hears
of people who come thus from distant Mongolia to Lhasa, passing years on the road.
The Bon pilgrims were mostly tall, athletic fellows with bold
energetic faces. To see them stretched head downwards when
descending steep, rocky slopes was indeed a striking sight.
A large number of women also walked around the hill, and
some accomplished the exhausting and endless prostrations with
remarkable courage.
We left the Brahmaputra, continuing upstream along the
river Giamda. We visited on our way the P u chung ser kyi
Lhakhang, a small golden-roofed temple with a golden altar.
Thcn, as I made my way along the valley, I noticed the
air of abandon, of ruin, which prevailed all over the country.
Deserted villages had fallen in ruins, the jungle triumphed,
reconquering the lands which had been cleared and cultivated.

' It

is called "Kora la Kyang clrag chrs pa."

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
Chinese posts had existed on the road-at that time the main
road-which
follows the left bank of the river, One could
see, here and there, high watch towers crumbling into ruins,
Around them a Chinese population had settled and cultivated
the country. T h e track along which they stood was now
haunted by daring robbers from the mountains I had thought
of crossing before m y meeting with the strange gompchen.
People of the neighbouring villages had strongly advised me to
cross the river and proceed on its right bank, although it was
a longer way round, because the country was a little more
populated and safer on that side. Yet even this bank was
sparsely populated. Indeed, after Chimazong, we saw little
but solitary forests.
On t h a t road I twice met lonely pilgrims, like the man I had
seen a t the beginning of m y journey dying near the Kha Karpo,
but in this case both were women. One of them, in spite of our
pressing advice and the little money we had given her, did not
appear inclined to ask hospitality in a village house. We left
lrer behind, but she overtook us by walking a t night, though
this time she appeared t o be a t the end of her tether. We
offered to lead her t o a hamlet near by, but she refused. She
wanted t o light a fire under the trees on the border of the road;
Yongden collected some wood which he laced near her, and
then we went away. T h e last sight 1 had of her showed me the
abandoned devotee seated next t o the fire that was beginning to
burn. A thin bluish spiral of smoke rose straight before her and
dissolved in space-a symbol, i t seemed, of the life which was
about t o depart.
T h e second wanderer I met lay under a thin shelter made
of branches by some half-compassionate villagers whose kindness was strong enough t o help the sick and lone pilgrim, but
did not go so far as to give her a corner in their homes. With
the woman remained her little dog, which barked ferociously
and tried its best t o frighten away those who approached its
mistress. T h e poor faithful thing was really touching- Here
again I could do no more than give her a little money and Pass
on my way. Is there a more cruel torture than to have continu252

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
ally to pass on one's way, powerless to relieve the countless
sorrows which lie along all the roads of the world!
Giamda, which is considered all over Thibet to be an important town, is little more than a village, but its situation a t
the intersection of the main road from Lhasa to Chiamdo and
the road to the Brahmaputra gives it perhaps a strategic and
trading interest. Although the town is situated a t a height of
nearly 11,000feet, the climate of the valley is warm and, during the day, when the sun shines, equals even in January that
of summer in such European countries as Belgium.
Travellers on their way to Lhasa, after having crossed a
toll bridge, must appear before an official to get permission t o
proceed.
How often I had discussed with Yongden the best way in
which to surmount this obstacle! As a rule things appear much
more difficult and terrifying in the course of such discussions
than when the moment of action has arrived.
T o pass through Giamda was an easy matter. We crossed
the bridge, paid the toll, and were led by a boy t o the official's
house. I sent Yongden in and sat down on a stone in the
dust, a t the door. Many people passed through the narrow
street, and no one took any special notice of me.
Yongden saluted the gentleman of the zong, or perhaps he
saw only his secretary or some pretty clerk of the place. After
the
a few minutes he came out, and we took up our loads
dreaded Giamda was left behind.
We were now on the post road,l the only one which crosses
Thibet. The progress of civilization along it is seen in the
shape of small buildings like shrines which mark the miles.
Indeed I took the first one I saw to be a rustic village chapel,
or tsa tsa house.2 What added to the illusion was that on some
of them lay carved stones bearing the usual Aum mani padme
hum, or other such formulz, and that I could see around them

...

' The old post road, on which, at the time o f the Chinese suzerainty,
the mail ran from Peking to Lhasa, but which now stops at Chiamdo and
does not cross China.
'See Chap. iv, p. I 36.

253

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
the trace of circumambulation in the little path made by the
feet of the devotees. I t was one of these which helped me to
discover m y mistake. Seeing an old man walking round with a
pious mien, I wished to see the picture of the deity enclosed in
the little shrine. To my astonishment I was confronted with a
piece of reddish stone, on which some figures-135, I thinkAll my notions concerning lamawere inscribed. Strange!
ism were disturbed. It took a few minutes of reflection before
the mystery of that uncommon cult was revealed to me. Never
should I have thought that my Oriental researches would lead
me t o discover the worship of the milestone!
M a n y were the sights, the talks and the observations, all
well worthy of being related, which filled the last part of my
journey to Lhasa. But I must omit them to make room for
the account of m y stay in the capital itself.
Our crossing of the Kongbu Ba Pass was saddened by a
painful spectacle. A party of pilgrims, mostly women, had
been robbed there of all their belongings by some of their travelling companions who had suddenly turned brigands, a thing
not s o rare in Thibet. Some of the unlucky women had not
been able to continue their journey and had sheltered themselves in a mountain cave. One of them had a gash in her
head; another had a terrible wound in the breast; the arm
of a third one was broken; others were more or less injured.
Their vile and wretched countrymen, though hailing from the
same district, almost the same village, had attacked them with
spears. At a short distance from the cave the corpses of two
men were lying. All this happened within a hundred miles of
Lhasa, on the main route. Horse soldiers could easily have
overtaken the murderers, but what official would trouble him-?
self about such a common occurrence in that lawless country.

...

CHAPTER VII
T last, after four months of tramping, filled with adven-

A

tures and observations of which I have been able to
relate but a very small part, I left Dechen one morning a t
dawn, and set out upon the last stage to Lhasa.
The weather was clear, dry, and cold, the sky luminous. In
the rosy light of the rising sun, we sighted the Potala, the huge
palace of the lamaist ruler, still far away, yet already majestic
and impressive.
"This time we have won," I said to my young friend.
He silenced me.
"Hush! D o not speak too soon! Do not rejoice yet. W e
have still to cross the river Kyi. Who knows if there is not a
post of watchmen there?"
So near were we t o our goal that I refused to believe failure
to be still possible. Anyhow, I dropped the subject.
As we advanced, the Potala grew larger and larger. NOW
we could discern the elegant outlines of its many golden roofs.
They glittered in the blue sky, sparks seeming to spring from
their sharp upturned corners, as if the whole castle, the glory
of Thibet, had been crowned with flames.
Our eyes fastened upon it. We walked a t a good speed, for
success was near and gave us wings.
The valley which we followed since leaving the Bala had
become quite open. The slopes which border it may, in days of
yore, have been covered with forests, but not a single tree was
now to be seen there, except a few that had been planted in
certain gardens.
Villages stood closer as we proceeded toward the capital,
but I felt very astonished to meet so few people on the highway. I was told by countryfolk that a much larger traffic
used to pass during the Chinese suzerainty. Their remarks

255

M Y J O U R N E Y TO LHASA
reminded me of what I had observed in the Kongbu provincabandoned and ruined villages a t the feet of crumbling watch
towers, and large tracts of formerly cultivated land on which
the forest had again encroached.
T h e Lhasa valley did not present so desolate a spectacle in
the part that I was crossing. But how much ground remained
uncultivated on which barley could have been grown for the
town near by, where the cost of living is so high!
Thibetans have lost much in parting with China. Their
sham independence profits only a clique of court officials.
Most of those who rebelled against the far-off and relaxed
Chinese rule regret it nowadays, when taxes, statute labour,
and the arrogant plundering of the national soldierly greatly
exceed the extortions of their former masters.
Arrived a t the river, which in the winter is but a narrow
stream, we embarked on a rustic ferry adorned with the head
of an animal, which the artist probably intended to be a horse.
A mixed crowd of men and beasts was ~ a c k e don the boat.
A few minutes later we landed on the opposite bank. Neither
the busy ferrymen nor any of the passengers had given us so
much as a glance. Hundreds of ragged pilgrims cross the Kyi
chu each year, and nothing distinguished us from our fellow
arjopas.
W e were now in Lhasa territory, but still far from the city
itself. Yongden once more repressed my desire to rejoice)
even in a whisper. What could he still fear? Had we not
reached our goal? And now, nature itself gave US a token of
her maternal cornplici ty.
As on the night of our starting, when we disappeared in
the Kha Karpo forests, "the gods lulled the men to sleep and
silenced the dogs." A miracle seemed to protect our entrance
into Lhasa.
N o sooner had we landed than the air, till then SO calm,
became agitated. All of a sudden a furious storm arose, lifting clouds of dust high into the sky. I have seen the simoon
in the Sahara, but was it worse than this? No doubt it Was*
256

M Y JOURNEY TO L H A S A
Yet, that terrible, dry lashing rain of dust gave me the impression of being once more in the great desert.
Indistinct forms passed us, men bent in two, hiding their
faces in the laps of their dresses, or whatever piece of cloth
they might happen t o have with them.
Who could see us coming? Who could know us? An immense yellow curtain of whirling sand was spread before the
Potala, blinding its guests, hiding from them Lhasa, the roads
leading to it, and those who walked upon them. I interpreted
it as a symbol promising me complete security, and the future
justified my interpretation. For two months I was t o wander
freely in the lamaist Rome, with none t o suspect that, for the
first time in history, a foreign woman was beholding the Forbidden City.
"The gods threw a veil over the eyes of his adversaries and
they did not recognise him." So went an old Thibetan talc
which I had heard long ago in the Land of Grass.
At that time of the year, a large number of people from all
the provinces of Thibet congregate in the capital t o enjoy the
various festivals and merry-makings, which take place there.
The inns are full. All those who can vacate a room or any shelter rent them. Travellers sleep in the stables and camp in the
courtyards.
I could have gone from door to door for hours, in quest of
a lodging, without any other result than showing myself to a
number of householders of both sexes and being compelled
to answer a lot of questions. Fortunately, I was spared the
trouble and danger of this.
The storm abated as suddenly as it had arisen. Newcomers,
unacquainted with the city, we stood a little a t a loss amid
the crowd without knowing where t o go. Unexpected help
came again t o me in the shape of a young woman.
"YOU want a room, Mother?" she said. "You come from
very far. You must be exceedingly tired. Follow me. I know
a place where you will be all right."
I only smiled a t her, uttering thanks. I felt rather astonished. Obliging people are many in Thibet, and the kindness

M Y JOURNEY T O LHASA
of the unknown woman was not altogether extraordinary, but
how did she know that "I had come from very farn! hi^
puzzled me a little, but no doubt she had gained that idea from
the sight of m y pilgrim staff, and 1 was lean enough, after so
many fasts and SO much fatigue, t o inspire compassion.
Our guide was not communicative. We followed her like
sheep, a little bewildered by the noise and the traffic after
months spent in the solitudes, and perhaps still more bewildered
b y our g w d luck. She led us outside the town to a place from
which one enjoyed an extended view of most beautiful scenery,
including the Potala. This detail struck me particularly; for
all along the road I had wanted to get a lodging from which I
could see it.
I was granted the use of a narrow cell, in a ramshackle cottage occupied by beggarly people. This was indeed the best
hostelry one could have wished for the security of my incognito.
T h e idea of looking there for a foreign lady traveller would
not have occurred to anybody; and the poor beggars who fiequented the place never suspected my identity.
T h e woman went away smiling after a brief farewell. All
had happened so quickly that it seemed a dream. We never
saw our guide again.
I n our hovel that evening, lying on the ground amongst our
miserable luggage, I said t o my faithful companion: "Do You
allow me now to say that we have won the game?"
(6 Yes,"
he said, and he shouted in a suppressed, yet most
triumphant tone: "Lha gyaZo. Dc tamche pam! We are at
Lhasa !"
I was in Lhasa. No doubt I could be p r w d of my victory?
but the struggle, with cunning and trickery as weapons, was
not yet over. I was in Lhasa, and now the ~roblemwas to stay
there. Although I had endeavoured t o reach the Thibetan
capital rather because I had been challenged than out of any
real desire to visit it, now that I stood on the forbidden ground
a t the cost of so much hardship and danger, 1 meant to
myself in all possible ways. I should really have felt ashamed
of myself had I been caught, locked up somewhere, and taken

258

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
back to the border, having only had a superficial and brief
glance a t the exterior of the palaces and temples. This should
not be! No! I would climb to the top of the Potala itself;
I would visit the most famous shrines, the large historical monasteries in the vicinity of Lhasa, and I would witness the
religious ceremonies, the races, and the pageants of the New
Year festival. All sights, all things which are Lhasa's own
beauty and peculiarity, would have to be seen b y the lone
woman explorer who had had the nerve t o come t o them from
afar, the first of her sex. It was my well-won reward after
the trials on the road and the vexations by which for several
years various officials had endeavoured t o prevent my wanderings in Thibet. This time I intended that nobody should
deprive me of it.
Lhasa, the largest town of Thibet, its capital and the Rome
of the lamaist world, is by no means a big city. It is prettily situated a t a little distance from the bank of the river
Kyi, in a large valley with a commanding horizon of high barren mountain ranges. Still, in a country of wonderful landscapes, as Thibet is, the scenery of Lhasa would be quite ordinary, but for the huge palace of the Dalai lama erected on the
Dsi Potala, one of the two summits of a small, isolated ridge
that shoots up in the middle of the valley. The other summit
is called Chog bu ri and is crowned by the buildings of the
Clerical Medical College. Better than any description, pictures
can give some idea of the gigantic edifice, but even the best
photograph will fail t o convey a true idea of its imposing
appearance, as it stands, a red palace capped with golden roofs,
uplifted high in the blue sky, on a shining pedestal of dazzling
white buildings. With the riches contained in that enormous
cluster of habitations, rising one above another, without any
order or plan, on the slope of the Tsi Potala, there could have
been built a real wonder-palace, but Thibetan architects never
were artists. The most precious materials, when handled by
their rough hands, succeed only in expressing might and wealth
and fail to reach beauty. Yet that barbaric treatment of silver,
gold, and precious gems gives the temples and palaces of

M Y J O U R N E Y TO L H A S A
Thibet a peculiar character, in harmony with the rough scenery
in which they stand. And this, in itself, makes a powerful
impression.
Chinese painters or students of Chinese art are responsible
for a great part of the Potala's decoration, as well as that of
the J o Khan& the holiest temple of Thibet. One could spend
~ e e k sin the many galleries and corridors of the Dalai ]ama
palace, reading in pictures on the walls the legends of gods and
the lives of saintly men, gracefully and wittily rendered in
millions of tiny figures full of lifelike animation.
Here and there amongst the apartments are scattered a large
number of Lha Khang (God's Houses), in which may be seen
a variety of images of all the symbolic and mystic deities of
M a h i y i n a Buddhism. Most of them are sumptuously decked
with golden ornaments inlaid with turquoise, coral, and precious stones. A special room contains the images of the previous Dalai lamas, and the present one is seated amongst them,
but in miniature only.
Darker recesses are devoted to some of the aboriginal gods
and demons of the pre-Buddhistic religion, which Thibetans
have never been able to forsake. A few words about them may
perhaps not be out of place here.
T h e story of the admission of these personages into the lamaist Pantheon, as told in the old books, is always the same. It
depicts the struggle of the Indian missionaries, or the first
Thibetan members of the Buddhist Order, against beings who
opposed their preaching and harmed their converts. These
holy men were always endowed with magic powers, and when
they succeeded t o a certain extent in conquering their mallgnant enemy, they took advantage of his momentary defeat to
extort from him the oath to renounce his hostile state of mind
and to become a protector of the Buddhist doctrine. In exchange, the title of ChGrkyong (protector of the religion)
bestowed upon the god or the demon, and a place was granted
to him in the temples.
Lamaism does not stop there. Even worse creatures are
symbolically fed in special buildings, and the offerings placed

MADAME
Areunnr DAVID-NEEL~
TEE FIRSTFORIEIGXU
WOMANWHOHAS EVEREWEREDTHE FORBIDDEN
HOLY
OF ~ A E W IS
. SEW SEATED1. PROWOF THE POTAU, THE PALACE
OF THE DALAI
LAMA. HERFACEIS SMEARED
w m BLACKLAC~CCORDING TO THB CUSTOM
OF ?TIE TRIBETAN
WOMEN
AT HERRIGHTSIDELAMAYONGDEB,
HERJ # D O ~SON.
~
AT HERLEFTSIDEA L1q-r~~
LHASAGIRL

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
there stand as a substitute for the more realistic and bloodier
sacrifices of the pre-Buddhistic cult. I t is only-so Thibetans
believe-strict
attendance to their needs, and a due reverence, that keep human beings and animals safe from their
ferocity. Other dread Malevolent and Invisible Ones are
chained by the power of magic charms, and a perpetual watch
has to be kept in order that the spells and other occult devices,
whose strength prevents the dangerous beings from escaping,
shall be recited and performed a t the right time.
Needless to say, all these rites have nothing t o d o with true
Buddhism, which does not admit of any rite a t all. But in
Thibet they are favoured even by the literati; for, so these say,
such performances suit their country and the mental level of
its masses. Be that as it may, all kinds of worship are practiced in Lhasa, even in the palace of its king, as well as all
over Thibet.
The Potala contains sumptuous suites of apartments, and
the upper terrace, on which stand Chinese pavilions, could be
made into an ideal roof garden, such as the world has never
seen; but the desire, or even the idea, of creating such a thing
has probably never entered the minds of any of the Dalai lamas
who have successively sat upon the throne of the Potala.
From the top of the palace, the view embraces, in front, the
whole of the valley, with Lhasa outspread in the plain.
Behind it a desert extends for a long distance, until a high range
rises suddenly like a Cyclopean wall. Seated a t its foot, the
large monastery of Sera (the hail), snowy white, rears its red
temples and golden roofs like the Potala itself. Its monks are
a formidable power in the state, which even the master of the
Potala must reckon with.
The comic element which had been t o me the breath of life,
even in the midst of the most trying circumstances, did not
desert me a t the gates of the Potala. The story of my visit t o
the Thibetan Vatican may well be worth the telling.
As the future was uncertain and my incognito precarious,
prudence advised me to hurry on with my sight-seeing tour,
and to begin with the most important places of interest. I

26 I

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
therefore decided that, before anything else, I would visit the
Potala.
As I was on my way with Yongden, I thought it would
be safer for me either to join some pilgrims or somehow to
manager to enter the Palace with a group of people. The
unquestionable authenticity of real Thibetan companions would
save me from suspicion. Unfortunately, we did not meet any
d o k p a ~or other border folk, and I was already resigned to
proceeding with Yongden alone when I noticed two men, clad
in the plain white dress of coarse serge worn by countryfolk,
strolling a t a little distance from the first gate.
"Let us take those men with us," I said to Yongden.
"How could we ask them such a thing?" he replied. ''Perhaps they d o not wish to go t o the Potala."
"Let us try," I continued. "They look just the dear, good,
stupid fellows we need."
I n a few words I instructed Yongden in the part he was
to play.
A t that moment a group of workmen came along, carrying
huge trunks of trees. People threw themselves hurriedly aside
to get out of their way, and Yongden took the opportunit~to
give one of the peasants a push in the back.
"Atsi!" he exclaimed, ~olitely. "I did not see you."
"No harm, Lama,'' answered the man.
"Where are you from?" enquired my companion, in the
patronising tone of a full-fledged denizen of the capital speaking t o countryfolk.
T h e y gave the name of their village and informed US that
they had come t o Lhasa t o sell barley. They had finished
their business and now thought only of enjoying themselves a
little in the big city, before leaving on the morrow.
"You are going t o meet the Potala," said Yongden, as if
quite sure of what he was saying.
T h e men confessed they did not intend t o do so, as they ]lad
(4
met'' it on several occasions already. Then Yongden, speaking
with the authority of one of the monks of the Potala, told thern
1

This is a respectful way of speaking of

262

a visit to a

holy plae.

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
of the religious merit that such a visit produced and said that
the New Year was the proper time to perform meritorious
deeds. Rather than loitering in the streets, drinking spirits in
the public houses, they ought t o pay reverence to the Potala
shrines. Assuming an air of profound compassion and kindness, he added that, as they had been brought together, he
was willing to lead them around the shrines and tell them the
names and stories of the deities. This was, of course, a wonderful opportunity. T h e faces of the two simpletons were
beaming and they followed the lama, rejoicing and thankful.
Like all Thibetans, they were very religious-minded.
Behind them, full of confidence, I climbed the long flight
of steps and reached an upper gate. T h e three men walked
in first, strong in the superiority of their sex. I was about to
follow humbly, when a boy, ten or twelve years old, a novice
lama, short and fat, with a red face, flat nose, and large ears,
looking like a gnome in a clerical robe twice too large for him,
stopped me. H e was acting as doorkeeper, and he ordered me
rudely to take off my fur-lined bonnet, such headgear not being
allowed inside the Potala.
What a calamity! I had forgotten that these bonnets were
not allowed there. I had worn mine a long time, in fact ever
since it had been sent, by some friends from an invisible world,
t o provide me with a most useful piece of disguise. It screened
my face and I felt protected against detection when I had it
on my head. What now?
My hair had resumed its natural brown shade. The Chinese
ink I used as a dye had worn away before I reached Lhasa,
and in my present dwelling, with the cracks in its doors, and
walls, through which my neighbours could peep a t any time, I
had not dared t o darken it afresh. It no longer matched the
braids of jet black yak hair that I wore, and the latter had
gradually lost a large part of their substance, until they had
become as thin as rats' tails. They were all right, however,
with the bonnet on. They shadowed my forehead enough to
reproduce vaguely the hairdress of some dokpa tribes. But now
that I had to obey that horrid little toad and take my bonnet

263

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
off, I knew that I should look funnier than any clown in my
circus in the world.
However, escape was impossible. I had my bonnet under
m y dress, as I was ordered to do, and rejoined my companions.
Yongden had lingered a little, waiting for me. At the first
glance, stricken with terror, he opened his mouth wide and
hardly suppressed an exclamation.
"What have you done?" he said, in dismay. "Who took
your bonnet away?"
"I a m not allowed to proceed with it on," I answered hurriedly.
"You look like a demon," he continued, trembling. "I never
saw such a face in my life! Everybody will stare a t you.
9)
A little more, and I should have cried. However, I derived
some comfort from the complete indifference of the two villagers, who did not appear to notice anything wrong or peculiar
in m y appearance and listened eagerly t o their guide, as he
related stories about gods, holy men and Dalai lamas of yore.
Others joined them, commenting on the profound learning of
the kind lama. I followed with the crowd, jostling along the
corridors, in the steep staircases and narrow shrine doors, and
none of them looked a t my extraordinary head. I was the only
one t o feel it, and I began t o enjoy the fun myself. AS for
Yongden, a little reassured now, he did not dare to look at me
too often, lest he should laugh aloud.
At last I reached the upper terrace, which is occupied by
the Chinese pavilions, whose elegant and glittering roof8 had
appeared t o me the day I arrived from China, announcing that
the goal was near.
After a few hours I went down, and only then a pilgrim
seemed t o realise that there was something unusual in my
appearance. I heard him saying t o his friends: "Where do YOU
think she came from?"
But he a t once found the answer himself.
"She must be a Ladki," he concluded.

...

' Ladak,
264

a

region in Western Thibet.

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
So we went on, having reached the top of the dominating
Potala, and enjoyed the beautiful sight of Lhasa, its temples
and monasteries, lying a t our feet like a white, red, and gold
carpet spread in the valley.
The two countrymen were delighted. They thanked the good
lama profusely, and offered him a few copper coins as a token
of gratitude and reverence.
"All is well," said Yongden as we went away. "I have prevented them from drinking and they have served us." H e put
the coins into the hand of a blind beggar, and thus some one
else rejoiced also!
I n spite of the splendour of the Potala, the present Dalai
lama does not seem t o find much charm in it. H e goes there
only occasionally, a t the time of certain festivals. His habitual
residence, Norbu ling,l is situated outside of the town in a
large park which, owing t o the lack of capable gardeners, is
not much more than a wooded tract of land cut by a few
avenues and paths.
A miniature zoo is one of the attractions of the place. This
includes a strange poultry yard where only cocks are admitted.
The celibate birds number a t least three hundred, and the
absence of any ladies of their species appears to have softened
their combative instincts. They peck their grain peacefully
side by side, and battles are rare. The animals live near one
of the gates opening on the high road and even wander on
the road in the hope of being fed by people as they pass.
Pilgrims, and even inhabitants of Lhasa, go on purpose to throw
grain to them, for they belong to the Dalai lama, and such
offering is considered t o be meritorious!
Several houses reserved for the use of the Thibetan LamaKing are scattered in the grounds of the Norbu ling.
The rooms of one of them are furnished in different styles,
or a t least what Thibetans believe to be different styles. One
room they call the English room, another the Indian, another,
again, the Chinese room, and, as on the flat roof of the building
1

Norbu ling, the "Jewel Island" or the "Jewel Place or Quarter."

265

M Y J O U R N E Y TO LHASA
stand the gilded ornaments called gyaltsen, emblematic of
power and victory, the courtiers of the Dalai lama repeat to
satiety before him: "All these various rooms, English, Chinese,
Indian, and so on, are under the Thibetan roof whereon stand
the Thibetan gyaltsen, and so Thibet is above all nations, and
you are the highest among all rulers."
I have been told t h a t this clerical King of Thibet smiles and
takes pleasure in these flatteries. One may well doubt his
taking them seriously. H e hastbeen twice in exile, first in China
and then in India, and hence must have learned many things
about the world outside Thibet. B u t if the ruler is perhaps
aware of his true situation, i t is not the same with the common
folk, to whom most extraordinary stories are told about the
greatness of the Dalai lama and the position in which he stands
before Great Britain. Very likely the court of Lhasa spreads
these absurdities in order t o increase the prestige of the Dalai
lama, with which its own is bound up. I will venture to relate
one of these stories, as it is rather amusing.
A t the time when the Dalai lama was in India, he happened
t o be the guest of the Viceroy. Once, being seated with the
latter and many distinguished guests in a large drawing-room
he stretched out his two arms. And behold! On each of his
upturned palms appeared one of the hills of Lhasa. On one
hand one could see the Potala, on the other the great Medical
College of Chog bu ri (the tent-shaped hill). At the sight of
this marvel the Englishmen were all awe struck. With the
Viceroy a t their head, they all fell on their knees and bowed
down a t the feet of the Thibetan pontiff, begging his protection.
T h e King of England was immediately informed of the miracle.
He, of course, shared the feelings of his eminent subject9 and
entreated the Dalai lama to become the patron of his kingdom!
and to grant him his help if he were ever attacked by ene"
mies. T h e compassionate lama promised graciously to send
him his army should the security of England become endangered.
Relying on stories of this kind and misunderstanding SOme
facts the details of which are beyond my present subject, most

266

M Y JOURNEY TO L H A S A
Thibetans are convinced that they have in some way become
suzerains of Great Britain. Thus are explained t o them the
temporary stays a t Lhasa of a British political agent. H e
comes, they think, t o ask respectfully the orders of the Dalai
lama, and t o convey them t o His British Majesty!
This is, of course, funny, but there is t o fun of this kind a
side fraught with danger for white residents all over Asia,
which only those who have lived long in out-of-way regions
of the East are able t o detect clearly.
I n Lhasa, one does not see the quaint shops and bazaars that
offer such a n exciting hunting-ground to the collector in China.
Nowadays, the most conspicuous articles in the Lhasa market
are aluminum wares. For the rest, the display is exclusively
composed of inferior goods exported from India, England,
Japan, or a few other European countries. I have never seen
elsewhere uglier cotton cloth, more hideous crockery than that
which one finds on the stalls of the Lhasa merchants. The
trade with China, formerly very prosperous, has been so greatly
hindered in favor of the goods imported from India that it
hardly exists any longer. T h e importation of tea and manufactured silk still continues, but efforts are being made to drive
Chinese products entirely out of the Thibetan market.
Coming from China, where silver was plentiful, both in coins
and in bullion, a surprise awaited me a t Lhasa. There is no
more silver in central Thibet. T h e national money, the tranka,
a small thin coin of very low standard, quantities of which were
circulating when I was a t Shigatze, has nearly disappeared, and
the few which remain can only be had a t a premium. As for
the "silver shoes" of fifty taels, the tamigma,' as the people
of Lhasa call them, which were current money when the Chinese occupied the Thibetan capital, they have completely disappeared.
The Lhasa government has cast an ugly copper coinage
Tamigma, "horseshoe shaped," also called Ngagchumo, "the fifteen
one," which is current money in northwestern China.

267

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
which is now in general use, in Lhasa and the neighbourhood,
but a t a distance of less than one hundred miles from the
Potala it is n o longer accepted, since it cannot be taken at its
face value in any transaction with people who have no business
a t Lhasa. T h e Lhasa government has also issued some notes,
but they remain an object of curiosity and the traders refuse
them. There exists a place near Norbu ling where golden coins
are stamped, but they d o not circulate.
I have enquired of many people concerning the cause of this
strange disappearance of the silver from central Thibet, seeing that it continues t o be plentiful in Chinese Thibet. The
answers I have gathered differ according to the social condition
and the special turn of mind of those to whom I put the question. Some only smiled when asked where the silver had gone.
Others declared: "The government hoards it." But a number
of more outspoken fellows told me brutally: "Our government
gives it t o the phizing masters of India (Englishmen) to pay
for the old guns, n o longer good for their own soldiers, which
they sell us. W e can fight badly armed Chinese with them, but
they would be of no use against a philing army." The same
idea was several times expressed before me in a more original
and superstitious way. Before being dispatched to Lhasa, said
some Thibetans, the guns sold to their country were deprived
of the power of harmlng the white foreigners or their servants
by the magic practice of the philing priests.
I n the part of Kham conquered by the Lhasa troops, when
the country people lament about the considerable rise of the
taxes, the Lhasa-appointed officials answer that their most kind
protector, the Dalai lama, is not responsible for these hardships,
but that the phililingr tell him to collect money. Why he obeys
them, what he receives in exchange for his silver, and many
other things, are not of course explained to the simple-minded
ones whose brains are not those of a logician. They only
member and bear in mind that these hated "white-eyed" (m'g
karl) foreigners are the cause of their ruin. Thus the hatred

re-

Mig Kor: "white eyes," the blue or grey eye9 are called "white" bY
Thibetans, who deem them most unsightly.

268

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
of the white men is sown and cultivated in the remotest corners
of Asia, where it will thrive and spread.
A very famous festival takes place each year a t Lhasa on the
evening of the full moon of the first month. Light wooden
structures of a large size are entirely covered with ornaments
and images of gods, men, and animals, all made of butter and
dyed in different colours. These frail frameworks are called
tormas. About one hundred of them are erected along the
par kor-that is to say, the streets that form the middle circle
of religious circumambulation around the Jo khang,l and in
front of each one, a large number of butter lamps burn on a
small altar. T h a t nocturnal feast is meant to entertain the
gods, just as are certain concerts on the roofs of the temples.
The butter tormas festival a t Lhasa is famous all over
Thibet, and even in Mongolia and China. I t is no doubt
truly glorious, yet, I think the feast is much more beautiful in
its sumptuous surrounding a t the great Kum Bum lamasery,
where I have seen it several times during the years I lived in
that monastery. However, I very much enjoyed that part of
the New Year merry-making a t Lhasa.
As soon as darkness had come and the lamps were lighted,
Yongden and I went to the P a r Kor. A dense crowd was there,
waiting for the Dalai lama, who was to go round to inspect the
tormas. I had more than once seen big Thibetan gatherings,
but I had gone through them with servants and other attendants who made a way for me. This was my first experience
of being part of the crowd myself.
Groups of sturdy giants, cowmen clad in sheepskin, holding
on to one another, ran for joy in the deepest of the throng.
Their big fists belaboured the ribs of those whom bad luck had
placed in their way. Policemen, armed with long sticks and
whips, growing more and more excited as the time of the Dalai
lama's coming approached, used their weapons indiscriminately

' There are three circles of devotional circumambulation : the nangkoc,
inner circle near the great temple o f the Jowo; the parkor, at some
distance f r o m it; a n d thc l-hikor, which includes the whole town of Lhnsa
as well as the Potala, in its circle.

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
against anybody. I n the midst of this tumult, trying our best
to guard ourselves against hustling and blows, we spent some
lively moments.
A t last the arrival of the Lama-King was announced. Then
more policemen appeared, followed by soldiers. The knocking, beating, boxing increased. Some women screamed, others
laughed. Finally there remained along the walls of the houses
that confronted the tormas only a few rows of people, more
tightly pressed against cjne another than tinned sardines. I was
amongst them. From time to time a man seated at a groundfloor window, whose view I was blocking, gave me a strong
push in the back, but i t was of n o use whatever. Even had
I wished it I could not have moved a single step. Finally he
understood this, or m y insensibility disarmed him. Anyway, he
ceased from using unnecessary violence.
T h e whole Lhasa garrison was under arms. Infantry and
cavalry marched past the dazzling butter edifices, lighted up
by thousands of lamps. I n a sedan chair covered with yellow
brocade, the Dalai lama passed in his turn, attended by the
commander-in-chief of the Thibetan army and other high ORcials. Soldiers marched in the rear. T h e band struck up an
English music-hall tune. Crackers were fired and meagre Bengal lights coloured the procession red and green for a few
minutes.
T h a t was all. And the lamaist ruler had gone.
For a long time after the regal cordge had passed, private
processions followed: people of rank surrounded by attendants
holding Chinese lanterns, high ecclesiastics with clerical followers, the representatives of the Nepal Maharaja, and many
others; clergy, nobility, wealthy traders, and their womenfolk
all dressed in their best, laughing-all more or less drunk and
happy. Their gaiety was contagious. Yongden and I went
with the crowd, running, jostling, and ~ u s h i n glike everybody
else, enjoying as youngsters might have done the fun of being
there in Lhasa, feasting the New Year with the Thibetans.
When a t last the time came to go back to our hovel, we
noticed on our way that the streets which ought to have been

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
well lighted by the full moon were growing darker and darker.
What did it mean? We are teetotalers, and could not have
the same reason as most citizens on that night, for clouded
vision. We reached a square, and noticed a black shadow in
a corner of the moon. It was the beginning of an eclipse, and
soon we heard a noise of drums made by the good people t o
frighten away the dragon which was trying t o swallow the nocturnal luminary! T h e eclipse was total. I observed it during
the night, and it was the most interesting one that I had ever
witnessed.
"This is still better than the curtain of sand before the
Potala, on the day of our arrival," said Yongden, jocularly.
"Now your gods are screening the moon so that we shall not
be seen too distinctly. I think you had better ask them to
stop their kind protection of our incognito. They might put
out the sun!"
Whatever may have been the protection with which I was
favoured, the day came when the safety of my disguise was
again endangered and I had to defend myself in my own way.
I was wandering in the market when a policeman stopped
and gazed a t me intently. Why? Perhaps he only wondered
from what part of Thibet I might hail, but it was better t o be
prepared for the worst. A new battle was t o be fought, and
I began it, my heart beating rather quickly, but brave as usual.
I chose, amongst the things for sale, an aluminum saucepan,
and began to bargain for it with that ridiculous obstinacy
shown by the people of the half-wild tribes of the borderland.
I offered an absurd price and talked nonsense in a loud voice,
hardly stopping to breathe. People around the booths began
to laugh and exchange jokes about me. The cowmen and
women of the northern solitudes are a habitual subject of
mockery for the more civilized people of Lhasa.
"Ah!" said the merchant, laughing, and yet irritated by my
continuous twaddle, "you are a true dokpa, there can be no
doubt of that!" And all present ridiculed the stupid woman
who knew nothing beside her cattle and the grass of the desert.
The policeman passed on, amused like everybody else.

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
I bought the saucepan, and, as I feared being followed, I
compelled myself to loiter about the market, playing a comedy
of admiration and stupidity before the ugliest and cheapest
goods. Then m y good luck caused me to fall in with a group
of true dokpas. I began to talk with them in their own dialect. I had lived in their country some years ago. I spoke of
places and men known t o them, and they were convinced that
I was born in a neighbouring tribe. I have no doubt that,
with the quickness of imagination that is peculiar to them, they
would, next day, have sworn in all sincerity that they had
known me for a long time.
A second incident happened a few days later. A kind of
special constable tried t o extort money from me; but I managed the affair cleverly enough t o give him nothing without disclosing my identity.
Still another policeman hit me with his truncheon because
I had trespassed in a place where "quality" only were admitted,
and truly I had t o make a great effort to prevent myself from
giving a gratuity t o that man, so delighted was I with the fun.
"What a wonderful incognito is mine!" I confided to Yongden.
"Now I am even beaten in the street!" And after that I felt
completely secure.
Lhasa is divided into several quarters: Yu thog, Lubu, Ramoche, Lhasahol, Tsemoling, Tengyailing, Tsecholing, Banajong, Parkor, Norbu ling. T h e city boasts of a bridge and an
obelisk. T h e bridge is of Chinese shape, painted red and roofed
with green tiles. Its name, "Turquoise-roofed Bridge," is derived from a noble Thibetan family whose dwelling is in the
vicinity. An ancestor of that family having received from the
Chinese Emperor the distinction of the "turquoise knob" (in
?'hibetan: Yu thog), his descendants were, from that time,
known as the Yu thog gentlemen, whence the name of the
bridge, further justified by its blue-green roof (,hog). The
obelisk is much shorter than that which one sees in the Place
de la Concorde a t Paris. Yet, even though it has no hiere
glyphics, it makes quite a respectable appearance. In front
272

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
of it, on the highway, a t the foot of the Potala, a tablet
bearing Chinese and Thibetan writing is sheltered by a small
building.
T h a t highway, humble as may be its appearance, is one of
the great arteries of the world. Starting from India, it crosses
central Asia, enters Mongolia, and ends in Siberia-a
long
track which cuts through high ranges of mountains, but does
not offer great difficulties to a good horseman. During the
winter, when the temperature allows one to carry provisions of
ice for drinking purposes, travellers can follow the r o d nearly
in a straight line across a waterless region. I n the summer,
they follow the devious route, passing to the east of the Blue
Lake, the Koko Nor of which I have already spoken.
One day, perhaps not far distant, "Transasiatic Expresses"
will carry there parties of tourists, seated in comfortable sleeping and salon cars, but then the charm of the journey will be
greatly diminished. As for me, I am glad to have travelled
from Ceylon to Mongolia before this happens.
T h e capital of Thibet is a town full of animation, inhabited
by jolly people whose greatest pleasure is to loiter and chat
out-of-doors. Although the population is far from being considerable, the streets are crowded from sunrise to sunset, but
it is not deemed prudent t o go out after dusk. T h e citizens
say that the establishment of a national police and army have
much increased the insecurity, for the official protectors of the
public safety often turn robbers when darkness has come.
With the exception of a small part of the town, the streets of
Lhasa are large, with broad squares a t their points of intersection, and relatively clean. Unfortunately, there is no sanitary
accommodation in many houses some empty plots of ground being reserved for this purpose in different quarters of the town.
Several important monasteries are situated in Lhasa itself,
amongst them the two famous colleges where tantrism, magic,
ritual and occult sciences are taught.
The three great lamaseries whose fame attracts thousands of
pilgrims and where young lamas come to study from even the
farthest regions of Mongolia and Manchuria, are not in Lhasa,

M Y J O U R N E Y TO LHASA
but in its vicinity. Sera, already mentioned, stands about four
miles behind the Potala; Depung is about six miles away, on
the road t o India; and Galden is hidden in a circle of mound
tains twenty miles distant.
These thiee, even if they are the largest and the most powerful, being state lamaseries, are not the only ones which Thibetans hold in high esteen. Amongst others, one can name Tashilhumpo, the monastery of the Penchen rinpoche.' It is located
a t Shigatze, in the Tsang province, and is considered to be the
highest seat of learning in all Thibet. Several days' march
from it stands the old historical monastery of Sakya, where
lives the head of an important "Red Cap" sect. I t contains an
unique library of old Sanskrit and Thibetan manuscripts. Besides these, there exist many others, such as Lhabrang Tashikyil
in Amdo, Kum-Bum in the same province, Zogchen in the solitudes of northeastern Thibet, and countless others.
Thibet is essentially a monastic country. While in the West
our important buildings are generally schools, hospitals, factories and other products of worldly activities, in Thibet the
gompasZ are the only edifices offered to the attention of the
traveller. Standing on the summits, silhouetted against the
azure sky, or else concealed in the recesses of the mountains, all
over the country, they symbolize a lofty ideal but one litda
understood nowadays even by their inmates.
T h e religious communities of Thibet form little states within
the state, of which they are almost entirely independent. All
are possessed of lands and cattle. As a rule, they carry on
commerce of some kind. T h e larger gompas rule over a considerable territory peopled by tenants whose condition resembles that of the serfs of Europe in the Middle Ages. They
cultivate, for their own profit, the land belonging to the monasteries and in return they pay each year a definite quantity of
cereals, forage, and so forth. T h e families who devote them-

' "Penchen rinpoehe," k r ~ o n nto the foreigners as "Tashi lama." is
equal
even the superior from the religious point o f view of the Dala1
lama, but he has no temporal power.
Cornpa, monastery.
274

M Y J O U R N E Y TO L H A S A
selves to rearing cattle pay their debt in butter, cheese, wool,
and dried cow dung for fuel, and the surplus produce of the
doks also goes t o them. All these serfs are obliged t o undertake certain statute labours, such as the transport of the baggage of the lamas when they travel, and of the goods sent for
sale t o other regions by the managers of the monastery's temporal affairs, also the repair of the monastic buildings and various other menial offices. They are also forbidden to leave the
country without obtaining permission, but this is rarely refused
to anyofie who wishes t o absent himself for the purpose of trading, studying, making a pilgrimage, or any other good reason.
However restricted the liberty of these tenants may be, their
situation is infinitely preferable t o that of their compatriots
established upon the domain of some great lay lord, and especially of those who are directly dependent upon the central
government. It is rare for the heads of the monasteries t o be
hard upon their subjects, and, in return for the tax they pay,
the peasants are really and effectively protected by the high
religious dignitaries upon whom they depend. They also escape
official civil jurisdiction. T h e misdemeanours and even crimes
they may commit are judged by dignitaries of the gompa to
which they belong.
Latterly, the Lhasa government, although ecclesiastical in
character, is seeking to encroach upon the privileges of the monasteries, and especially t o reduce their rights of jurisdiction, a
fact which arouses vehement protestations, not only from the
lamas, but from those under their rule.
The inhabitants of the gompas d o not live in communities,
although a kind of community of wealth exists among them by
virtue of the fact that each receives a share of the income
of the monastery. P a r t of these shares are delivered in kindcorn, butter, tea, etc. They differ considerably in importance,
first of all, according t o the wealth of the monasteries, and
then according to the hierarchical standing of each monk. T h e
Places where ca:~le are raised in the
dok Illcans solitude, desert.

solitary pasture lands. Literally,

275

M Y JOURNEY T O LHASA
monks have yet other Sources of revenue: a portion the giftr
given to their gompa, the performance of religious ceremonies,
the presents offered by the relatives of the young men they
instruct, etc- Lack of space makes i t impossible for me to mention all of them in detail.
I n spite of all the criticism that may justly be directed
against the g o m p a ~ ,they afford an excellent retreat for the
student, the thinker, and anyone else who desires an intellectual
or spiritual life. Almost entirely free from material cares, the
humblest lama may give himself up to a leisurely study of the
religious and philosophical literature of his country, and if he
succeeds in learning Chinese or Sanskrit and thus extending the
field of his researches, he is greatly admired by his colleagues.
I t is very true that many lamas do not seem to possess any
of the qualities which a religious vocation demands, but the
way in which they have been brought into the monasteries
often affords sufficient excuse. Every Thibetan family esteems
it a n honour for one or more of its sons to adopt the religious
habit; and, to this end, the boys destined to the priestly state
are taken t o the gompa a t the age of eight or nine, and handed
over t o a master charged with their education.
Life vows do not exist among the Buddhists, who believe in
the fundamental impermanence of all things, and these children
may, therefore, return later on t o the world and live as laymen
without incurring the disesteem of their compatriots. Some of
them d o so; but many, not feeling sufficiently courageous to
apprentice themselves to any other career, maintain the habit
of the Order without respecting it as they should. AS a rule)
these drones of lamaisrn, somewhat lazy and gossiping, a trifle
too gluttonous and especially too greedy of gain, are charitable
and hospitable folks in spite of their faults. We may add to
their credit, moreover, that however feeble their morals Or
limited their intelligence, they do maintain a reverence for
learning and saintliness, being always ready to venerate those
of their companions who rise above them by virtue of erudition or loftiness of character.
A large monastery in Thibet is a veritable town, the popda-

276

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
tion of which sometimes amounts to as many as ten thousand
persons. It is composed of a network of streets and alleys,
squares and gardens. Temples in larger or smaller numbers,
the assembly halls of the different colleges, and the palaces
of the dignitaries rise above the common dwellings, their gilded
roofs and terraces surmounted by banners and divers ornaments. I n the gompa every lama lives by himself in a house
of which he is sole proprietor, whether he has had it built a t
his own cost or bought or inherited it. This dwelling may be
bequeathed by the lama t o one of his pupils or to a relative,
but the legatee must himself belong to the religious Order.
N o layman is allowed to possess a house in a monastery.
Certain high monastic palaces are veritable museums, full
of artistic treasures. I n them have been accumulated gifts
received by a long line of Grand Lamas, or precious things
acquired by themselves, over a period of several centuries.
Enamel, lacquer, rare porcelain, marvellous embroideries, and
the paintings of Chinese or Thibetan artists are to be seen
there. T o find such manors isolated in the midst of the vast
steppes, or hidden in immense virgin forests, seems like a fairy
tale. But is not everything a fairy tale in this extraordinary
country, even t o the name i t gives itself, that of Khang Yul,
"the land of snows"?
I have had the privilege, unique in these days, of living in
several monasteries. After what I have said of them, and
of their separate houses, one can understand how it was possible for a woman to live there. Nevertheless, there is a rule
against such admission, and only very special reasons-my
age, the studies I was pursuing, and, above all, powerful p r e
tection-~rocured me this privilege.
For more than two years I translated Thibetan books in the
celebrated monastery of Kum-Bum in Amdo, in the northeast
of Thibet, beyond the great Desert of Grass. There, seated on
my balcony, on certain evenings, I could hear the lamas'
orchestra playing on the roof terrace of the great assembly
hall. The concert was being given to the gods. It was they,
the Invisible Ones, whom it was desired to charm, attract,

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
cause for a moment to rest, and smile among their younger
brothers, the humans! What was asked of them! Nothing
nothing but t o take pleasure in the music of our world.
This was charming in its infantile poetry, and what miscreant
would have dared to doubt that the light-footed goddesses did
not brush over our dwellings, hastening toward the sweet strains
that called them.
Meanwhile, in the vast edifice scarcely lighted by the lamps
placed before the magnificent tombs and gilded statues of
defunct lamas, the monks were seated motionless, attired in
dark-crimson togas. They were chanting in deep tones solemn
sentences of mystic import or transcendental philosophy, which
raised the mind above captivating illusions.
Above them, the last notes of the bewitching melodies melted
away, and soon the recitation of the sacred writings itself came
to an end. A rapid gesture, symbolising the void, brought the
vesper service to its close, and each lama returned to hi3
own abode.
However great the charms of the studious life I led at
Kum-Dum, and of the romantic surroundings in which I dwelt,
they could not efface or lessen the impression made upon me
by certain simple gompor, offering none of the splendours ofthe
wealthy monastic city of Amdo. One of these was perched
like an aerie, upon a mountain spur surrounded by forests.
T h e villages, planted in the depths of the valleys, remained
invisible from the monastery, and all around it was silence and
solitude. There one could behold no princely palace, no ternple crammed with ancient treasures. Some whitewashed cabin3
made of branches and clay served as dwellings for the humble
lamas of this rustic hermitage.
T h e configuration of the surrounding mountain rangeS
arrested the passage of the clouds, and forced them to turn
around the rocky summit which supported the gomP4 forming a sea of white mist, with its waves beating silently Winst
the cells of the monks, wreathing the wooded slopes and eresting a thousand fanciful landscapes as they rolled byrible hailstorms would often break over the rnonaster'Y~due)

278

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
said the countryfolk, t o the malignity of the demons who sought
t o disturb the peace of the saintly monks.
T h e site lent itself admirably t o the fearful imaginings of
occult forces, and of those singular encounters with beings of
other worlds. According t o old traditions, gods and devils
haunted the neighbouring forests, and for this reason g o m p
chens buried themselves in their depths, in pursuit of ends
known only t o themselves. I had my hut there, a tiny dwelling
under the giant trees. T h e lamas built it for me, partly out of
respect, but partly also, doubtless, from a spice of mischief,
desiring t o test m y courage and see whether I dared to rival
their mystics by living there alone, in the company of the
phantoms. One night a storm of unusual violence overthrew
my cell of branches and scattered its covering to the winds of
heaven. Knowing the superstitious credulity of my friends the
lamas, I insisted that i t should be put up again in the same
place. If I had left it, they would have been sure t o conclude
that the incensed deities had driven away the stranger who had
been rash enough t o establish herself in their district, and for
me all chance of further study would have been lost.
The hut having been rebuilt, I had brought there a store of
provisions to last a month, and expressly forbade anybody to
visit my quarters for that length of time. M y days passed
peacefully, in company with the birds, which did not appear
a t all disturbed by my presence. Some roes came t o look a t
me, and one day a big bear appeared, seemingly much surprised to find me there. Thus, in reading, musing, and cooking my sole daily repast, I awaited the end of my retreat.
Spring was a t hand. When the lamas came back to seek me,
they found flowers growing around my dwelling, and I myself
was flourishing. They thought I had overcome the dread
forces, and the respect they manifested for me was enormously
enhanced. Later on, I lived in another more remote hermitage
close to the everlasting snows, and that time a prolonged stay
of several years acquainted me with the secrets and the bliss
of the Thibetan gompchens' life.
Ascetics given up to meditation.

M Y JOURNEY T O LHASA
H o w many of these desert monasteries I could describe! I
a m thinking of one of them, a nunnery, isolated in the midst
of rocks and glaciers, access t o which is possible only during
the four months from June to September.' After this short
summer, the barrier of snow is raised once more and the recluses are immured for the rest of the year. Yet the gompa,
however f a r it may be from the bustle and activity of the
village, fails to satisfy the exacting mysticism of Thibetan
thinkers. Farther in the deserts, higher still on their giant
peaks, they seek caves and almost inaccessible shelters, where
they m a y meditate and be ever alone, face to face with the
Infinite and the Eternal.
T h e holiest temple of Thibet, which I went to see after
m y visit a t the Potala, is called Jo Khang (the House of the
Lord). It was built to shelter an ancient image of Siddharta
Gautama as a youth, before he became a Buddha. That image
was made in India and is supposed to have been carried to
China about the first century B.C. The Chinese emperor, Thaijung T'aitsung, gave it as a dowry to his daughter when she
married the Thibetan king, Srong Tsan Garnpo. Amongst the
credulous Thibetans many legends circulate about the image
and its origin. M a n y say that it was self-created, and it is
firmly believed t o have spoken on several occasions.
Beside the Jowo (Lord) altar in front of which burn thousands of lamps, there are, in the temple, a large number of
rooms that contain images of deities and of holy men.
A strange sight is the crowd of pilgrims perambulating silently
in the dark, windowless edifice between these motionless Personages, many of which are life size. T h e yellowish light of the
butter lamps adds to the strangeness of the spectacle. From
a distance it is sometimes difficult to distinguish the living
beings from the host of dummies who receive their homage1

m e path leading to the hermitage where I stayed w a also
from the middle of December to April. This is a common thing with
anchorites' dwellings in Thibet.

280

M Y JOURNEY T O LHASA
Although the statues are of n o artistic interest whatever, one
receives a deep impression from those many faces, immutably
serene, whose gaze seems fixed on some inward object and
which tell of a mystic method that establishes the mind in an
everlasting calm.
I felt saddened a t beholding the procession of worshippers,
lost in superstition and exactly following the path that was
condemned by the very one whose memory they worship.
"Beings led by ignorance, who tramp for fathomless ages the
sorrowful road t o renewed births and deaths," as the Buddhist
Scriptures say.
However, the many sacristans and sextons, who, wrapped in
their dark-red togas, are conspicuous everywhere in the temple,
do not find any cause for sadness in the affluence of pilgrims.
I t is all profit t o them, for they allow themselves a large share
in the offerings of the faithful. They can be seen watching the
crowd, ready t o seize upon those who appear the richest or
the most devout, from whom the biggest gratuities may be expected. As soon as the little group of pilgrims or the lone
devotee is in their power, there is no end to the wonders
they are led t o witness, the holy relics that are placed for a
second on their heads, the holy water that they are made t o
drink from various gold and silver pots, the stories that they
must hear. And invariably an offering is requested by the comrades of the guide in charge of the various shrines.
I humbly confess that, as it could not have been my wealthy
appearance which attracted these cunning fellows, it must have
been my air of ~ r o f o u n dstupidity, for I was quickly provided
with several uncalled-for guides, who took me into the most
remote corners of the edifice, exhibiting a lot of articles of
piety. I might have thought I was back in European Rome
with its greedy sacristans.
I was again mistaken for a Ladaki. As I walked around a
shrine, trying to avoid tasting of holy water once more ( I had
been sufficiently refreshed by ~ r e v i o u sdraughts), I heard behind me a compassionate voice:
"Oh!" said some one, "give holy water to that poor woman
281

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA

.. .

who has come from Ladak
so far away. How great is
her faith!
9)
This time it was not the desire for money, but kind feelings,
which prompted the lamas. I saw young and smiling faces
around me. A man took hold of my arm and guided me to
the proper place, while others pushed away the pilgrims in
front of us. I could now admire, close to, more gems, more
golden and silver ornaments. A jewelled pot was bent toward
my hands, which I extended in the orthodox fashion. "Let
me drink and wet m y head." I thought, "This is my baptism
as a Ladaki."

...

I had a happy inspiration when I chose the beginning of the
year for my stay a t Lhasa, for a t any other time it would not
have been possible for me to see so many strange festivals
and interesting ceremonies. Mingling with the crowds of holiday-makers, I saw cavalcades of gentlemen richly attired in the
style of past ages: and cavalry and the infantry of the ancient
kings, in their coats of mail, bearing shields and bucklers,
recalling the Thibet of former days. There was a certain
amount of horse-racing. It was disorderly, mad, joyous, and
amusing, but not t o be compared, from the point of view of
horsemanship, with that of the dokpar in the Desert of Grass.
On several occasions I saw the man who is recognised as
the most learned in all the country, and who occupies the
throne of Tsong-Khapa.1 Throughout the first month of the
year he preaches in the open air, under a canopy erected for
this purpose, close t o the Jo-Khang. His audience is not
recruited from the crowd, as one might think from the fact that
he speaks outside the temple. T h e monks alone have the right
t o sit crosslegged on the pavement a t his feet, and those who
hear the preaching have been chosen by their superiors. They
are there by command. Woe to anyone who spoke to
his neighbour, and who did not maintain an absolutely motion-

' The

founder of the Geluk pa sect.

have "virtoous customs," that known
sect

282

Literally, the sect of thoge who

by the Westerners ar "Yellow Cap''

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
less attitude. Woe also to the unfortunate layman whose religious zeal led him hither to listen t o the dhcourses of the
Supreme Master. T h e clerics acting as police officers for the
assembly would soon lash him roughly with the long bundle
of ropes they flourish continually in a martial fashion.
The great philosopher of Thibet is a spare old man with a
thin, angular countenance and the appearance of an aristocratic and haughty ascetic. He walks with short, quick steps
beneath the yellow-brocaded umbrella of honour which a friar
holds over him, as if he were anxious t o have done quickly
with an annoying duty. T h e expression stamped on his intelligent face is that of the suppressed boredom of one t o whom
crowds and ~ u b l i cceremonies are distasteful.
Seated upon his throne, he does not preach in the way we
understand the word in the West. H e speaks without gestures,
without raising his voice, with an air of detachment, such as
the theories he is explaining demand. The striking contrast
afforded by the doctrines expounded by the doctor, together
with his refined appearance, and the ignorant, listless crowd,
watched by the brutal clerical policemen surrounding him, are
well calculated to surprise a stranger. As to Ser ti rimpoche,'
being born, brought up and having grown old in such a n environment, he probably does not notice it.
The first penetration of Western civilization into Lhasa may
be traced in the uniforms of the khaki-clad soldiers. I really
enjoyed seeing them, headed by a band which played English
tunes not too badly, marching with a swaggering step out of
time with the music. They are armed, as has been said before,
with old English rifles that are still up-t+date in most parts
of central Asia, and even possess a few pieces of mountain
artillery that are carried by mules. They are immensely proud
of the latter and air these short, fat, toad-like weapons in and
out of season. One of them burst, killing several men, but the
I

' Ser ti rimpochc, "the precious golden throne," is the familiar appellation which the people o f Lhasa give this high larnaist dignitary. His
real title is Galken Tipa, "he who occupies the throne of Galden."
T h a t is to say, the throne of Tsong Khapa, founder o f the Galden monastery.

283

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
accident did not lessen the admiration that the Lhasapas have
for those which remain. I n that blessed country, occurrences
of that kind are even sometimes believed to be auspicious, In
this connection, I can relate an incident which happened dUring my stay a t Lhasa.
It is the custom, during the first month of the year, to make
moJ and t o look in many ways for omens regarding the prosperity or ill luck that is t o come t o the state and especially to
the person of the Dalai lama.
One of the omens is obtained in a rather strange way. Three
tents are erected, and in each of them an animal is shut-a
cock, a goat, and a hare. These beasts have, hung around
their necks, charms which have been blessed by the Dalai lama,
A number of men must fire a t the tents, and if any of the animals are wounded or killed it means that calamities are awaiting Thibet and its ruler. If this happens, the monks of the
three great monasteries, Sera, Galden, and Depung, must
assemble and read the sacred Scriptures for twenty days and
perform several ceremonies t o counteract the ill will of the
deities.
T h e year I was a t Lhasa about twenty-five shots were fired
a t the tents, instead of fifteen, which is the usual number.
English, Chinese, and Thibetan rifles were used. One of the
last burst, and the man who fired it was severely wounded
and died the next day. T h e fact that no tent had been hit)
even after that prolonged test, was considered as most auspicious, and the accident that caused the death of the man added
greatly to the confidence of the Thibetans regarding the we]fare of the Lama-King! T h e unfortunate commoner, they
thought, had been taken by some angry demon as a substitute
for the most precious existence of the ruler.
During the many years I had spent among Thibetans I
had exceptional opportunities of seeing a t first hand the
life of the different classes of people; but never before had
I penetrated so deeply into the intimacy of the common folk
as I did during my stay in Lhasa. T h e hovel in which I had

284

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
found shelter was the centre of a small caravanserai where
the strangest specimens of humanity were to be met. T h e
wealthiest guests only slept under a roof, the others remaining in the open. Every act, even every thought, was public.
I really lived in a novel whose plot was slum life, but what
amusing and exotic slums! They had nothing of the lugubrious physical and mental aspect of those of the West. All
were dirty and ragged, food was coarse and often scarce,
but everybody enjoyed the great luminous blue sky, and the
bright life-giving sun, and waves of joy swept through the
minds of these unlucky ones devoid of worldly wealth. N o one
practiced any trade or craft. They lived, as birds do, on what
they could pick up daily.
Apart from the acute lack of any comfort, I did not suffer
among my strange neighbours. They never suspected who I
was, and they treated me with simplicity and kindness as one
of themselves.
Some had known better days. One was the youngest son of
a man who possessed a little wealth. H e had married a wellto-do widow much older than himself, and might have prospered, but idleness, drinking, and gambling had ruined him.
When his wife had become aged he had taken a mistress, and
after a time the legitimate spouse, who realised that she would
end in poverty if she kept her unworthy husband, managed
to get rid of him in a rather clever way. She called together
his and her relatives, and declared her intention of retiring by
herself to consecrate her last years t o devotion. Her husband,
she said, was in love with his mistress; she did not object t o
their marriage (polygamy as well as polyandry is legal in
'I'hibet), but they would have to leave her house, t o assume
all debts that the man had made, and to agree that she was
free from any obligation toward her husband. I n fact, it was
divorce. The man consented, a deed of marriage was drafted,
and he went with his new wife.
The lifc of the former lovers was far from being smooth
when I happened to make their acquaintance. The husband
was a good-hearted, weak fellow, but an inveterate drunkard,

285

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
who was generally unconscious soon after noon, and so nmained until the next morning. T h e wife, more than once,
kept him company. Nevertheless, she was the more active of
the pair and of a cleverer turn of mind. Indeed, her clever.
ness was the subject of tremendous quarrels. The husband
asserted that during his prolonged sleep the woman stole his
remaining properties-household
utensils, blankets, etc.
T h e wife complained that her consort had sold her jewels and
gambled with the product. When she raised her voice to a
pitch high enough to arouse the drunkard from his stuporand that feat required strong lungs-a picturesque dialogue followed. Often the man took a heavy stick that he had always
a t hand, being somewhat crippled by gout, and the lady then
received a first-rate bastinado that left her weeping and bruised
before anyone had time t o come t o her help. The room was
very small, with only one door on the outside, and the cunning
husband, who was a very stout man, always managed to block
it with his fat body, a position from which he could reach his
old sweetheart with his long stick in whichever corner she ran.
T h e miserable house was divided in three. The entrance
room was occupied by the quarrelling couple I have just mentioned. I had a narrow cell a t one side of it, and a dark room
a t the back sheltered another most remarkable pair.
They also had lived golden days. T h e housewife's n~anners
were those of a woman of good family. Her husband, who
owned some property a t the time of their marriage, had been
appointed an officer in the Thibetan army during the war with
China. Then, as had been the case with his neighbour, gambling and drinking had ruined him.
Complete poverty did not, however, abate his pride. He
was a very tall, rather handsome man, full of contempt for
work, and he assumed the dignified mien of a knight bearing
undeserved misfortune. Everybody addressed him
with a Thi(I
TO
captain."
betan title somewhat corresponding to our
accept a humble job seemed repugnant to the aristocratic feelings of the "Captain," and as the government did not offer
him a ministerial seat, he nobly took to the independent profes-

...

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
sion of begging. Each morning, after drinking his tea, my
neighbour went out, a courier bag slung over his shoulder and
a wallet thrown on i t the way the hidalgos of yore carried their
cape. Staff in hand, he walked, head erect, too conscious of
his superiority even to condescend to be arrogant.
The "Captain" did not come back home before sunset. He
lunched somewhere, taking nobody into his confidence as t o
the invitations he received. H e was witty enough t o be pleasant, and enjoyed a kind of celebrity all over Lhasa. People,
amused by his manners, gave him what he requested casually,
as if the aim of his daily outing was only t o call as one gentleman on other gentlemen. H e succeeded with that method,
and his wife and his two children were regularly fed with the
contents of the bags he brought back duly filled each evening.
The trouble in the drunkard's home grew worse when a
turquoise ornament belonging t o the housewife disappeared.
At first the nenzo accused her husband. But innocence prevailed, and the culprit was discovered in the person of the maidservant-for the lady of the small entrance room had a maid!
Now a strange question was raised. T h e girl pretended she
was entitled t o an indemnity for having been called a thief.
T h a t term of abuse, she said, did not apply t o her, because she
had not stolen the jewel; she had found it lying on the ground
in the room and had picked it up. Men acting as arbiters, as
pleaders, as counsels and witnesses, soon filled the house. Some
of them had never seen the turquoise locket or the girl, or heard
anything connected with the case. They came early in the
morning, ate, drank, and stayed late into the evening. From
my small quarters I got the full fun of these strange proceedings, and of the peculiar arguments which were put forward, especially a t the end of the afternoon, when spirits had
infused original ideas into the brains of the assembly.
Once, when the discussion had been specially heated, the girl
and her former lady began t o exchange abuse, and then flew
a t each other. T h e men present got up to separate them-a
rather hard task, for the infuriated females turned their nails
against those who dared to meddle in their duel. Anyhow,

287

M Y J O U R N E Y TO LHASA
they succeeded in pushing the maid out of the house, and, to
prevent her from coming back, followed her to the street door
across the courtyard.
One of those inexplicable thoughts that take possession of
d n ~ x ~ k a r dsuddenly
s
made the master of the house fix the
responsibility of the incident upon his wife. He declared that
she had brought shame on him before his guests, and he tried to
play his usual trick of standing in the doorway and beating
her* B u t this time, excited by her previous struggle, she flung
herself a t him and tore his long earring1 from his ear, which
bled. H e retaliated b y knocking her on the head, and she
shrieked loudly. T h e "Captain's" wife ran out of the room to
intervene between them. She had not taken two steps on
this lilliputian battlefield when she received on the cheek a
stroke that was not meant for her, and fell on a bench, calling
for help. Yongden being away, I thought it was my duty to
prevent the man from seriously hurting his wife, so I walked
in with the intention of sheltering the now terrified woman in
m y room. B u t people were coming, and escape became passible. "Run away quickly," I urged the woman, protecting
her retreat. She passed behind me and I never saw her again.
When the "Captain" came home that evening he found his
lady with a swollen cheek that had already begun to turn
black. T o relate the scene that was then enacted with the
flame of a brasero for footlights, exceeds my powers of description. T h e "Captainv had all the manner of a gifted actor. He
declaimed half the night, in turn ferocious, clamoring for
revenge, then full of pathos, telling of the suffering of his
dame. Again, drawn u p t o his full height, his head nearly
touching the low roof, he would speak of the insult done to
his honour. T h e man t o whom that rhetoric was addressed lay
on a broken couch, more than half unconscious, and the ''Captain," who was himself f a r from being sober, ended his soliloquy
by denouncing the degrading habit of drink.
Next day the "Captain" took Yongden aside and declared
1

Thibetan men, who can afford it, wear r more or leu costly earring
in the left ear and a small knob in the right one.

288

M Y J O U R N E Y T O 1,HASA
his intention of calling me as witness in a suit he meant to
bring t o obtain damages for his wife's bruised cheek. The
young lama tried t o persuade him to give up his idea, and
offered him a little present. H e took the money, but remained
obstinate. His wrong was to be avenged, and I ought to help!
When Yongden reported this conversation to me I felt very
annoyed. I would have to appear before several people eager
to hear about the journey of pilgrims who, like us, had visited
a large number of holy places. This would mean long talks,
and Yongden and I would of course be questioned about our
native land. It might turn out badly for our disguises.
We were drinking tea silently, wondering how we could
avoid these dangerous meetings, when the door opened. In
Thibet, especially among common folk, one does not knock a t
to enter a room or a house.
the door or ask any
A man stepped in. After the usual polite greetings, he told
US that my neighbour, whom I had helped to escape the day
before, intended to divorce her husband and wished me t o
appear as a witness to testify to her husband's brutality. As
in the previous case, I endeavoured to induce the man t o
allow me to remain neutral, for both husband and wife had
been obliging, and I did not want t o say anything against
either of them. But persuasion was useless, and he retired
saying that he would insist upon my evidence being heard.
We thus decided to leave Lhasa for a week, ostensibly for
the sake of visiting the great monastery of Calden, where reposes the massive gold and silver be-jewelled tomb of Tsong
Khapa, the founder of the "Yellow Hat" sect, and many other
interesting sights. T h a t journey was far from being uneventful.
Among other incidents, Yongden, when wandering alone
through the monastic city, met a man who had known US well
for a long time. H e of course enquired about me, and the lama
told him that I was still in China and that when his pilgrimage
was over he would go back to me. Our old acquaintance then
invited him to drink tea, but Yonqclen declined, saying that he
did not feel very well and wo~lldcall on another occasion. He
quickly rejoined me, and as, happily, we had finished visiting
2%

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
the various shrines and the country around the monastery, we
made haste t o leave the place.
At Lhasa much tea and spirits had been drunk, but the two
cases were still pending. A new period of festivities was soon
t o begin, and the judges had postponed the case until after
these were over. This completely dispelled my fear, for I had
decided to leave the day after the great Ser Pang pageant.
B u t I had not yet finished with the comedies and dramas
enacted by my curious neighbours. One night I was awakened
by one of the open-air lodgers of the courtyard, an old woman
who asked help for her daughter, who seemed to be about to
die. Yongden and I and the "Captain" and his wife ran
hastily outside. W e found the girl seated; she appeared to
breathe with difficulty and uttered strange sounds a little like
the noise of an engine letting off steam. "I understand now,"
the mother told us. "The god rides her." l
T h e girl was a pamo. I had seen a number of these people
in trances, including this young woman herself a few weeks
before, but that night she looked particularly excited. Her
mother and sister hastened t o fasten on her the symbolic ornaments of the pamo, amongst others the hat called rigs ngabecause it bears five (nga) pictures of Dhyani Buddhas, each of
them, according to lamaism, the spiritual father of a lineage
(rigs)
She began to shake her head and to dance. Her chanting,
which had a t first been no more than a murmur, became
louder and louder until she shrieked. Two dogs were tied up
in the courtyard. T h e good beasts did not appreciate this
nocturnal performance, which no doubt troubled their sleepThey began to bark, to howl, and finally, one of them succeeded
in breaking his chain and jumping toward the pamo. Several of
those present, who, like myself, occasionally fed the animal,
went after it, pushing the pamo out of its reach. Like many
mastiffs, this one was very mild with the ~ e o p l ehe knew, so
we held him without great difficulty, and tied him up again. The
Thibetan expression denoting a medium in a trance.

290

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
moon was shining brightly now, and Yongden noticed that the
dog had carried something away in its mouth. On looking
closer, he saw that it was the rigs ngo, the pamo headgear, that
had fallen down in the scramble. T h e dog kept it between its
paws, after the fashion of its race when they begin t o rend
a piece of cloth.
The pamo had stopped her dance. She stood stiff and
motionless as a statue. Her mother asked her if she had been
hurt, but the girl seemed unconscious and did not answer.
Then the old woman noticed that the rigs nga was no more on
the pamo's head.
"Where is my daughter's rigr nga?" she lamented immediately. "Where has it fallen? Oh, what a bad omen!"
"The dog has it," I said. "Do not be so sorry; it was an
old one. T h e lama, my son, knows a kind trader in the town.
He will beg a new one from him."
I thought that, knowing I would give her another hat, the
old beggar would feel consoled, but before I had even finished
speaking she screamed loudly:
I t is the god.
The
"Take it away from that dog.
god is in it. T h e dog will kill the god and my daughter will die!"
"Has the dog really got it?" enquired the "Captain."
"Yes," answered Yongden.
"Then the pamo will die if he tears it," declared the gentleman mendicant, oracularly. It was not the time to reason with
these fools.
At the noise the old mother was making with her: "The
dog will kill the god, my daughter will die!" all the guests of
our caravanserai had awakened and gathered around us-a
picturesque assemblage, moving in confusion under the round
and peaceful moon. None of them raised any doubt about
the perilous situation of the god and of his medium, but none
dared to affront the terrible black animal, the only sensiblelooking creature amongst them, who regarded this unusual
nocturnal agitation with the utmost astonishment and thus
forgot to play with the rigs nga. The old woman was growing
hysterical, her daughter remained lifeless as a dummy.

. ..

...

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
"A magic phurba is needed," a dishevelled orator said at
last, and he began t o explain how it was to be used by a duly
initiated lama, in order to overpower the demon who had
entered the dog and made him seize the rigs nga and devour
the vital principles of the god and of his medium, which no
doubt dwelt in the symbolic hat. B u t n o magic dugue was
available. T h e "Captain" cut short the discourse.
"I will fetch my sword," he announced, "and stab the animal
from behind."
I felt indignant t h a t the stupid coward should murder the
poor innocent dog. I could not bear the thought of it.
"Let me d o it," I said. "I shall get the rigs nga!" Turning t o Yongden, I ordered: "Make quickly a big ball of tsampa."
H e ran into the house and I went t o the dog. It was a little
risky. These Thibetan watchdogs d o not like even their masters to take things away from them. Anyhow, the big animal got up when I spoke to it, and while I patted its head I
quickly gave the witch's crown a kick and sent it flying some
distance away. T h e mastiff did not notice it, or it did not
care. Its attention was attracted toward Yongden, who came
out with the ball of flour. "Eat that, my friend,'' I said.
"It will be more tasty and nourishing than a god."
T h e afflicted mother immediately replaced the dirty hat upon
the head of her pamo, and the latter suddenly recovered from
her seeming insensibility and began t o gyrate like a top. "The
god has come back," shouted the ragged listeners. Then they
began to tell one another strange stories about cases of the
same kind that had ended badly for pawor or parnos. Each
one had a miracle a wonder to relate but I had quite enough
of the affair and hurried back to my cell.
T h e day had come when the annual ceremony of driving the
t(
scapegoat" out of the town was to take place. The Thibetan
scapegoat, unlike that mentioned in the Bible, is not an animal,
but a man conscious of the part he is playing. It is supposed
by the Thibetans that lamas expert in magic can divert to him
the causes which would deliver others into the hands of the
spirits, bringing upon them poverty, illness, death, and misfor-

292

VII

E NEARKALIMPOWC
IN BRITISHBHUTANWHEREMADAME
ALEXANDRA
DAVID-NEEL
ENDEDHER JOURNEYWHENARRIVING
FROM LHASA

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
tunes of all kinds. So each year a voluntary victim called
L u s kong k y i gyalpo (the King of Impurity) charged with
the iniquities of the ruler and of his subjects is sent to sandy
Samye, which is a Sahara in miniature. T h e lure of a considerable profit always induces some poor fellows t o risk the adventure. There may be a certain amount of skepticism in their
minds about the demons and the danger of becoming their prey;
but more likely the Lus k o n g k y i gyalpos expect to be able t o
secure for a large fee some lama-still cleverer than those who
charge him with the people's sins-who will cleanse and protect them. However, either on account of the atavistic credulity
that they are incapable of shaking off entirely, or for some
other reason, these human "scapegoats'? often die prematurely,
suddenly or in mysterious circumstances, or are afflicted with
strange diseases. A former L u s k o n g k y i gyalpo died during
my stay a t Lhasa, the day before his successor was to be
driven away to Samye!
I did not fail to wander through the town during the week
that preceded the sending away of the "scapegoat," and watch
him collecting the tax to which he is lawfully entitled by the
government. H e was dressed in a good Thibetan robe and
would not have been recognisable but for the tail of a black
yak which he held in his hand. H e entered the shops and
passed through the market, requesting money or offerings in
kind. If any one tried t o escape a t too little cost, L u s k o n g
kyi gyalpo remonstrated briefly with him. H a d he not obtained
what he wanted, he would have waved the yak tail above the
head of the miser or on the threshold of his llouse, a gesture of
malediction producing the most terrible consequences. All were
giving liberally, it appeared, for I did not see L u s kong k y i
gyalpo flourish the enormous hairy yak tail. A discussion arose
on one occasion, and though I was too far away t o hear the
words, I had no doubt about the subject. T h e future "scapegoat" grew impatient and half raised his hand holding the
strange weapon, but then several men intervened, and all ended
satisfactorily, for I heard them laughing.
L u s kong kyi gyalpo collects his tax a t the doors of the

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
wealthiest and highest in rank, as well as a t those of the poor.
T h e result is a veritable fortune for a man of a low station in
life, as he always is.
I wondered if he would visit my hostelry; but he must have
thought it really not worth his while to trouble the beggars
who lived there for the few copper coins he might have gathered. Anyway, he did not appear. Fate caused us to meet
once in the street, and the strange personage extended his
hand toward me. Out of fun, I wished t o see him use the
black tail, so I said: "I am a pilgrim who has come from far
away. I have n o money." H e only looked a t me, sternly
replying: "Give." "But I have nothing," I replied. Then he
slowly lifted his arm, as I had seen him do in the market, and
I should certainly have enjoyed the sight of the waving of
the yak tail over my head but for two well-dressed ladies who
stopped him, saying, hastily: "We will give for her!" They put
a few small coins into the hand of the man, who went his way.
"Atsi! mother, you d o not know," the two kind women explained. "Had he waved that tail over your head you would
never have seen your country again !"
On the day when Lur kong k y i gyalpo was to be driven
away a dense crowd assembled along the road that the Dalai
lama would follow to go to the Jo Khang, where he was t o
preside over the ceremony in which the "scapegoat9' would be
charged with the impurities of the people. This year, according t o his horoscope, was a critical period of his life. A supplementary protection had therefore been arranged. Perhaps
he thought, in all humility, that the weight of his own errors
was sufficient for one man, and had consequently secured a
private "scapegoat." T h e official Lur kong kyi gyalpo was to
run t o Samye as usual, while his colleague would turn northward and reach the first pass on the Mongolian road.
Soon the representatives of the clerical police, armed with
saplings (readers must not think that my imperfect knowledge
of the English language makes me write that word for another;
they were really young thin trees, about ten feet long), began
to maul the mob in order to clear the way for the kingly *amas

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
The scene was similar t o that which I had witnessed on the
evening of the butter torma festival, but on a much larger scale.
I cannot relate all the comical incidents of the chase-men
who dropped their belongings, fleeing women who fell down,
children dragged along in tears. Nevertheless, everybody was
merry, even those who were hit and must have felt their bones
aching. People were penned like cattle in a large open place
and allowed t o breathe a little under the strict watch of various
kinds of policemen armed with whips, enormous straps made
of strings of plaited leather, and the saplings already mentioned.
At intervals, somebody ran along shouting orders. T h e
arrival of the Dalai lama was announced. All, women included,
had to take their hats off, and those who delayed were soon
acquainted with one or another of the lamaist policemen's
weapons. Thanks to my short stature, I escaped thumps and
thrashings during the hours I stood there. When danger
threatened, I always managed to find shelter among a group
of tall Thibetans who acted as a protecting roof over my head.
The Dalai lama passed a t last, riding a beautiful black mule,
and accompanied by a few ecclesiastical dignitaries, all like himself dressed in religious robes--dark-red, yellow, and gold brocades, half covered by the dark-red toga. They wore Mongolian round hats of yellow brocade edged with fur. T h e Commander-in-chief rode before them, while some horse guards clad
in khaki led the van and brought up the rear.
After Lus kong k y i gyalpo had gone through the ceremony
a t the Jo Khang I saw him hurried out of the city. H e was
clad in a coat of white goat fur, and wore one black yak tail as
headgear, holding another one in his hand. His face was
painted half white and half black. All along the way the crowd
shouted and whistled.
More ceremonies were performed to bring back to the city
the yangku (wealth and ~ r o s ~ e r i t ythat
) might have escaped
in the train of the impurities carried off by the (6 scapegoat."
T h e sun had set before all was over.
A town whose inhabitants had been cleansed in such way and

M Y JOURNEY T O LHASA
t o which unlimited prosperity was promised, could not but be
joyful. So was Lhasa that evening. Everybody was outdoors,
chatting, laughing and, especially, drinking. The most hideous
beggars, deaf and dumb, blind, eaten up by leprosy, rejoiced as
heartily as the wealthiest and noblest citizens. I met acquaintances-I had made a few who did not suspect my origin-and
willy-nilly was hurried into a restaurant, where I had to rise to
the occasion by eating a great variety of Thibetan dishes. I
must confess t h a t I did not find i t in the least difficult to submit
to that ordeal, since Thibetan cooking is not t o be despised.
T h e d a y following saw me percKed, one among many, on
the rocky spur of the Potala, t o witness the great pageant called
Serpang.
Never did I see a more original, more wonderful spectacle.
Several thousand men marched in file around the Potala. They
carried hundreds of huge multicoloured silk flags, hundreds of
embroidered banners and state umbrellas. Dignitaries proceeded slowly under canopies, surrounded by clerics holding
censers. Sometimes the procession stopped, and then boys
danced. Couples composed of a man carrying a big drum on
his back and another who beat the instrument from behind,
went through graceful evolutions.
Elephants, also, walked gravely, escorted by fantastic paper
monsters of the Chinese variety, performing all kinds of antics.
Then, again, there were warriors of yore, clad in coats of mail,
and finally, followed by the priestly servants of their temples,
came the local deities whom I had already seen the day before.
Several bands marched with the procession, some of them
with fifteen foot trumpets borne on the shoulders of several
men. These huge musical instruments, sustaining the harmoniously wailing Thibetan hautboys, (gyalings) produced a
solemn impressive music which filled the whole valley with
deep sonorous voices. And when their vibrations had died
away, Mongolian musicians delighted our ears with sweet
pastoral tunes played on flutes, tinkling bells, and small drums.
T h e pageant moved in a fairy setting. Under the blue luminous sky and the powerful sun of central Asia the intensified

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
'colours of the yellow and red procession, the variegated bright
hues of the crowd's dresses, the distant hills shining white, and
Lhasa lying on the plain at the foot of the huge Potala capped
with glittering gold-all
these seemed filled with light and
ready to burst into flames. Unforgettable spectacle which alone
repaid me for my every fatigue and the myriad dangers that I
had faced to behold it!

CHAPTER V I I I

I

LEFT Lhasa as quietly as I had entered, and no one sus-

pected that a foreign woman had lived there for two
months. I looked somewhat different from the beggar I was
when I first entered the Forbidden City. I had promoted myself
to a more respectable station in the social hierarchy. I was
now a lower-middle-class woman, the owner of two horses and
accompanied by a man servant whom Yongden had engaged at
Lhasa. Official enquiries about travellers going from the capital to the frontiers are not very strict, so I could afford to
make myself a little more comfortable. I had also purchased
a quantity of books a t Lhasa, and as the tour I was undertaking in the south of the country had, as its special object the hunt
for old manuscripts to add to the excellent Thibetan library
I had collected on m y previous journeys and which was safely
housed in China, horses were needed to carry the luggage.
As for myself, I had decided t o continue to walk most of the
time, finding it-now that I had n o longer a load t o carry-a
most enjoyable sport.
One sunny morning in spring I followed once more the
wide street leading t o the Potala, across gardens where trees
were now gay with the fresh pale green garb of new leaves.
I passed the gate of Norbu ling, smiling a t the idea that the
ruler of Thibet, who lived there, little imagined that I had
been so near t o him for so long a time. H e knew me personally, since we had met more than once in the HimBlayas. He
was indeed l a r g e l y r e ~ ~ o n s i b both
l e for m y present journey and
the previous ones, having pressed me t o undertake a thorough
study of the Thibetan language and literature. I had followed
his advice, and the growing interest in Thibet which I had
derived from my study had finally led me, after years of travel?
to the Dalai lama's own capital. Had I given my name, and

298

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
had he been free, he might have liked t o see me again, but
his present Western suzerain does not allow him as much freedom as his Chinese master did. Whatever may be his own
inclinations, he is n o more a t liberty t o welcome a foreigner
who is not sent to him, than he is to forbid his door t o those
who are recommended or delegated to him. So I went my way.
We crossed the river Kyi and ascended a small pass. There
I looked back for a last vision of Lhasa. From that distance
the Potala alone could be seen-a tiny castle suspended, it
seemed, in the air like a mirage. I remained for a while gazing
a t the graceful vision, remembering the toils and troubles
that my stay in Lhasa had cost me. I had had my reward.
In a hearty Molam I wished spiritual enlightenment and material welfare t o all beings visible or invisible who lived in the
Forbidden City that had been hospitable t o me, and then,
turning t o the south, I began m y descent. Lhasa had forever gone from m y eyes and taken its place in m y world of
memories.
Quite near Lhasa, on the left bank of the Brahmaputra, one
finds a miniature Sahara whose extensive white dunes are
invading the whole country. One can observe there, though on
a much smaller scale, a phenomenon like that witnessed in
Northern Kansu and in Chinese Turkestan, where the Gobi1
has swallowed up immense territories occupied, centuries ago,
by flourishing estates.
I n spite of a ridge which stood in their way, the sands have
taken a firm footing in the Kyi Valley, and though still shallow
on that side, their fine dust is beginning t o accumulate along
the hedges which border Norbu ling, the pleasure garden
of the Dalai lama. It may possibly be that in a few generations
Lhasa will be reached. W h o knows whether, in a still more
distant future, some savant, excavating the entirely submerged
city, may not discover the Potala and the Jo Khang, just as

' Gobi, in Chines-at least in the dialect spoken in Kansu and T u h stan-means a drsert, so that to say the "desert of Gobi" is in fact 8 redundancy.

299

M Y JOURNEY T O LHASA
we now lay bare the palaces and temples which the sands of the
great Gobi have overwhelmed.
On our way we passed the monastery of Dorjee Thag, most
picturesquely situated against a rocky cliff on the river shore,
with a small village a t its foot. Farther off there were a few
more villages whose fields are gradually disappearing beneath
the mounting sands.
T h a t snowy-white desert region through which the Brahmaputra, like a huge azure snake, winds its way serenely, imparts
to the Samye monastery a peculiar air of mystery. Traces of
miraculous events are pointed out all over the country. A high
isolated rock, standing strangely in the bed of the river, bears
witness to one of the most remarkable of these ~rodigies. Once
upon a time this giant had removed from 1ndia toward the
heights of Thibet. W h a t was the goal of its adventurous
journey? One cannot tell. Perhaps it felt impressed by the
calm beauty of the wide Brahmaputra valley, its turquoise sky
and its blue river, and, struck with admiration, its enormous
bulk came t o rest upon the sand. Since then, an unbroken
trance has held it there, alone in the desert, its feet bathed in
the stream. I envied it as I passed. Like it, why could not 1
seat myself on the shore of the blue river, and remain there for.
ever, wrapped in solitude, sunken in unshaken rapture?
Samye is an historical site. In the eighth century after
Christ, the first Buddhist monastery of Thibet was built there.
T h e legend tells that the demons, determined to prevent the
erection of the building, pulled down each night the work
done by the masons during the day. T h e famous magician
Padmasambhava succeeded not only in conquering them, but
in compelling them t o become his obedient servants, and with
their aid he built the monastery in a few nights!
T h e Samye monastery has long been the seat of powerful
lamas; but since the establishment of the "Yellow Cap" sect
and the superiority acquired by it over the "Red Cap," in becoming the official clergy of the state, Samye has lost its importance and is now an abandoned place where can be found
hardly more than twenty trapas.

..

M Y JOURNEY T O LHASA
A number of houses inside the large enclosure of the monastery are now inhabited by the lay tenants of the gompa and
have become small farms. Yet the few temples still remaining
in the deserted monastery are kept in good condition. As
successive fires have destroyed not only the original buildings, but those which have replaced them, the present edifices*,
are not of great interest. Yet one of them deserves special
mention, for it contains a most dreaded shrine and is the seat
of one of the great official oracles of Thibet.
This shrine is called U Khang (House of the Vital Breath),
because it is said that the breath of every being who dies on
the earth is carried in it. There, in an inner room sealed with
the seal of the Dalai lama, are placed a chopping-board and a
knife of ritualistic shape. With these implements the devils
each night cut up invisible corpses and-so say the Thibetansone can hear from outside the noises of the chopping mingled
with cries and laughter. T h e oracle of Samye alone is allowed
to enter the shrine once a year t o deposit a new choppingboard and knife. T h e old ones, which are removed, are then
seen to be worn out by the use that has been made of them.
That "breath" which can be chopped seems a somewhat extravagant invention. It is but the popular gross interpretation
of some esoteric beliefs and rites of the nagspa. Stories to make
one's hair stand on end are told concerning the U Khang.
Struggles of tortured "breath" against ferocious beings of another world, thrilling escapes of ghosts in search of the body
which has been theirs, racing with infuriated female devils
in pursuit of them! All the elements necessary t o a first-rate
nightmare may be gathered in the tales to which the U Khang
has given birth.
Years ago, when the Lama Choskyongl entered the shrine,
he was allowed to be accompanied by a few members of his
e~clesiasticalhousehold, but a dramatic incident put an end to
that privilege. Once as he was on the point of leaving, the

' Chiiskyong (Sanskrit : D I ~ a r m a ~ a l a or
) "protector of the Religion."
Title o f some deities in M n l l i y i n a and especially in Tankrit Buddhism, that
is given to human beings amongst lamaists.
301

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
Changzod who followed the lama felt as if somebody was tugging a t his zen from behind.
"Kusho! Kusho!" he exclaimed, addressing the Chiskyong,
"somebody is pulling my robe!"
Both men turned to look behind them. The room was
empty! They then continued to proceed toward the door where,
just as he was about to step out after the Choskyong, the
Changzod fell dead!
Since then, the Lama alone enters the abode of the eaters
of "breath," as he only is believed capable of protecting himself by the recitation of secret spells.
Outside the door of the shrine one can see a number of
leather bags which represent the invisible wrappings in which
the "breaths" are carried t o the U Khang. There exist, say
the people connected with the shrine, sorcerers who, while in
a trance and unconscious of what they do, perform the peculiar
function of seizing the "breaths" of the departed and bringing
them t o Samye.
But I must cut short this account. T h e field of the occuIt
seems boundless in Thibet. Occult lore may there be studied
a t all stages and in all forms, from the most absurd, degraded,
and repulsive, t o those whose manifestations give cause for
reflection and contravene all preconceived ideas.
Beginning with the ignorant quack who treats the villagers
with words and gestures, the meaning of which is as unknown to him as to his clients, we may, before we arrive a t
the aristocracy of magic and witchcraft, make the acquaintance of many picturesque personages who roam about the
country or remain rooted in retreats extremely difficult of
access.
Incidentally, in the course of the preceding chapters, I have
mentioned the mopas, who predict the future and discover
hidden things; the vagrant naZjorpo5 who, aping the true
ascetics of that name, pretend that they can command the
deities and the demons; and the pawof and their female cola

ChangzSd : Head steward.
the monastic toga.

' Zen:

M Y J O U R N E Y TO LHASA
leagues the pamos, a variety of mediums who deliver oracular
pronouncements in trances. T h e smallest fry of these last grovel
miserably in the towns and villages, offering their services in
exchange for food, while the greatest among them are highly
honoured, lordly beings, living in sumptuous abodes and occupying, under the title of Choskyong, high official positions.
There is also in Thibet a curious class, including persons of
both sexes, but especially women, who are reputed t o be
hereditary keepers of "poison."
What poison? Nobody
knows. No one has ever seen a trace of it, but this very mystery
adds to the terror it inspires. When the fatal times arrives, the
one who is t o administer it cannot escape the obligation. I n
default of a passerby who may afford him an opportunity, he
must pour it out for one of his friends or relatives. One hears
whispers of mothers who have poisoned their only sons, of husbands who have been obliged t o hand the fatal cup t o a dearly
loved bride the day of their marriage; and if there is no one
within reach, the "keeper" must drink the deadly potion
himself.
I have seen a man who was said to be the hero of a strange
poison story. H e was travelling, and on his way through a
village he entered a farm t o obtain refreshment. T h e mistress
of the house prepared him some beer by pouring hot water
upon fermented grain placed in a wooden pot, according t o the
custom of the Himilayan Thibetans. She then went upstairs.
When left alone the traveller remarked, with some astonishment, that the beer placed before him, in the wooden vessel,
was boiling in great bubbles. Near by water was also boiling
in a cauldron, but in a natural way. T h e man took a large ladle
of this, and emptied it over the suspicious-looking beer. At
that moment he heard a fall on the floor above his head. T h e
woman who had served him had fallen down dead.
This "poison" is a source of great worry to travellers in
Thibet. There exist peculiar wooden bowls, which, it is maintained, are sensitive t o the presence of ~ o i s o nin any beverage
poured into them, and for that reason they are sold a t very
high prices.
Strange to say, in some households the family is convinced

303

M Y JOURNEY T O LHASA
that the mother possesses "poison." Where does she hide it?
Nobody tries to find out, for all are convinced that there is no
cure for such a fatality. T h e y look askance at, spy upon the
gestures and words of the unhappy woman, who in the end
often comes t o believes that this "poison" of hers really exists.
Even the death of the tormented person does not put an end
t o the danger. T h e "poison" seems inexhaustible. It is transmitted, and the legatee has n o power t o refuse it. Willynilly, he is obliged to become a poisoner in his turn. I t must
be understood, however t h a t when they administer the "poison," as well as when they bequeath i t to a successor, these
"keepers" are acting unconsciously, as the passive agents of
another will. Nor d o they remember their action afterward.
T h e tantrik rites, in the course of which the participants eat
a piece of the flesh of a corpse, and others still more extraordinary-the
a r t of prolonging life with all the energy of
youth, b y seizing upon the vitality of others; levitation and
so forth-all these are practised, it is said, by small groups
professing esoteric principles.'
There is an order of nagspas whose members are reputed to
be experts in the science of killing, slowly or suddenly, from a
distance. They are also said to be able to chase away evil
spirits or to send them t o attack some articular individual.
This gives rise t o amusing comedies. A man who desires to
harm another from jealousy or some other cause, sends for a
nagrpa, begging him t o dispatch a devil t o worry his enemy*
T h e magician casts his spell, b u t the peasant, merchant,
or noble lord against whom the rite is ~erforrnedmay
learn what is going on. Then he has recourse to another
nagrpa, and the play begins. On his arrival the evil spirit finds
a n adversary whom he cannot conquer, and returns in anger
whence he was summoned. His irritation makes him dangerous, and it is essential that he should promptly satisfy his ferocious instincts. For that reason he is sent back again, and once
1

It is impossible to enter into the details of Thibetan mysticism andI
occultism, a subject greatly exceeding the compass of the present book..
intend to treat it separately, later on, giving the results of my special studies.

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
more finds himself overpowered. This game of ball, a t the
expense of the poor devil, may be prolonged, his fury becoming
progressively stronger. Each of the nagspar, then, must look
out for his own safety, for he who cannot master the invisible
spirit will become its victim. I t is rare, however, for things to
take a tragic turn in performances of this kind, as in other more
occult affairs which sometimes bring madness and death t o
those who attempt them.
Usually the peregrinations of the evil spirit only serve as a
pretext for each of the wizards and his assistants t o sojourn in
the house of his credulous client and feast a t his expense.
Certain objects, having being used for magic rites, must not,
according to the popular belief, be kept in the houses of the
laity or the non-initiate lamas, for fear that the beings who
have been subjugated by means of them may revenge themselves upon their present owner, if he does not know the way
to overpower them. To this belief I owe the possession of
several interesting objects in my collection. People who received magic implements through inheritance have often entreated me to take these too dangerous legacies from them.
One day a gift came to me in a manner queer enough t o be
worth relating. I n the course of a journey I fell in with a
little caravan of lamas, and, conversing with them, as is
customary on such travels, where encounters are rare, I
learned that they were transporting a phurba (a magic dagger)
which had become a cause of misfortune.
This ritualistic weapon had belonged t o their head lama,
recently deceased. It had begun its misdeeds in the monastery
itself. Of three monks who had touched it, two were dead,
and the third had broken his leg falling from his horse. T h e
high pole of one of the large benediction banners suddenly fell,
and this was an ominous portent. Terrified, yet not daring to
destroy the phurba, for fear of yet greater misfortune, they
had deposited it in a box, whence, soon afterwards, lugubrious
and threatening sounds were heard to issue. Finally they
had decided to lay the dread object in a lonely cavern dedicated
to some divinity. But the cowmen living in the district had

305

M Y JOURNEY TO LHASA
opposed this- They recalled the story of a phurbq which
(though when and where nobody knew) had, under similar
conditions, begun t o wander through the air, wounding and
killing many men and beasts.
T h e unhappy bearers of the magic dagger, which lay, wrapped
up in papers with charms written upon them in a carefully
sealed box, appeared very sad. Their discomfited countenances
forbade m y rallying them, and I was, moreover, very anxious
t o see the evil implement.
"Let me look a t the phurba," I said. "I may be able to find
a means of helping you."
They dared not break the seals and let it free, lest it
escape; but finally, after a lengthy argument, they allowed me
t o take it out myself.
It was an ancient and very interesting specimen. Only the
great monasteries own phurbas of this kind. Envy was aroused
in my breast; I wanted it badly, but I knew that nothing in
the world would induce the lamas t o sell it. I must reflect
a little and think out a way.
"Camp with us this evening," I said t o the travellers, "and
leave the phurba with me; I will look after it."
M y words promised nothing, but the attraction of a good
supper and a gossip with my people, who would distract them
from their worries, decided them to accept.
When night fell I went some distance from the camp, openly
carrying away the dagger, the presence of which, out of its
case, while I was not amongst them, would have terrorized
the credulous Thibetans. When I judged that I had gone far
enough, I stuck the cause of the trouble upright in the ground
and sat down on a blanket t o think out how I could persuade
them to give it up t o me.
I had been there for several hours when it seemed to me as
if the form of a lama arose near where I had fixed the magic
dagger. I saw it advance, stooping cautiously. One hand
came slowly forth from beneath the zen which enveloped him,
and appeared in the indistinct light to grope for the phurba
With a single bound, quicker than the thief, I reached it and

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
dragged it out of the ground. So I was not alone in desiring
the mischievous implement! Among my chance companions
there was some one, less simple than the rest, who knew its
value and wanted to sell it secretly. H e had believed me asleep.
He thought I would perceive nothing, and next morning the
disappearance of the dagger would be attributed t o some occult
influence, and a new story would be the result. I t was really a
pity that such a fine plan should not succeed. B u t I had
secured the magic weapon, and held it so firmly in my closed
hand that my excited nerves and the pressure of my flesh on the
rough surface of its worked copper handle gave me the impression that it was moving slightly. And now for the thief?
All around me the immense tableland was empty. N o doubt
the marauder had been able t o effect his escape whilst I was
stooping to snatch the dagger from the earth.
I ran t o the camp. It was quite simple. T h e one who was
missing, or who came in after me, would be the thief. I found
them all awake and chanting religious formulas to protect themselves against the powers of evil. I called Yongden t o my
tent. "Which of them has been absent?" I asked him. "No
one," he replied. "They are half dead with fright, and I had
to be angry with them because they would not go f a r away
enough to perform certain acts !"
Strange indeed! I had been dim-sighted, deceived b y an
illusion. I t was not common with me; but no matter, this
perhaps would serve my purpose.
"Listen," I said to the men; "this is what has just happened.
And I told them frankly of the vision I had had, and my
doubts of their honesty.
"It is our Grand Lama. Undoubtedly it is our Grand
Lama!" they exclaimed. "He wanted to take back his dagger
and perhaps he would have killed you if he had been able
to get it. Oh, Jetsunma, you are a true gonzchenma, even
though you are a philing. Our Tsawai Lama was a mighty
magician, and yet he could not take his phurba away from you.
Keep it now, keep it. It will no longer harm anybody!"
They were all talking a t once, excited and terrified a t the

. ."

M Y JOURNEY T O LHASA
thought that their lama-magician, more dreaded than ever, since
he belonged to another world, had passed so close to them.
Yet they were overjoyed a t being rid of the enchanted dagger.
I shared their joy, but from another cause. The phurba was
mine. Nevertheless, honesty forbade my taking advantage of
their emotion t o appropriate it. "Reflect," I said t o them;
I may
"perhaps a shadow was responsible for the vision.
have been asleep and dreaming."
T h e y would not hear of this. T h e lama had appeared. I
had seen him. H e had not been able t o take back his phurba)
and, b y m y superior power, I became its rightful owner.
I
must own that I allowed myself to be easily convinced.
After leaving Samye I crossed the Brahmaputra near
Tsetang, where the valleys of the Yanlung open out. This
country is famous for the number of its places of ~ilgrimage.
As t o its physical aspect, it is pleasant and fertile, with nothing
of the majesty of the forest of the P o yul, the Land of Grass,
or the bleak tablelands near the Himilayas. Its inhabitants
take agriculture much more to heart than d o those of the other
provinces of Thibet. Well-built houses are to be seen in large
numbers everywhere, and the people appear t o be in a rather
flourishing situation.
T h e charm of the mild climate and the fertile ground of the
Yarlung valleys have been known for centuries, and the first
kings of Thibet, long before Buddhism, under its lamaist disguise, spread through the country, had chosen it for their residence.
Like a conscientious pilgrim, I visited the celebrated Ner
sum, Ten sum, six places of religious interest, amongst which
is a cave-now enclosed in a monastery-where Reschungpa,
one of the two foremost disciples of the great ascetic poet,
Milarespa, lived for a time, practicing meditation. From there,
1 went t o Tag chen Bumba, where there is a large chwefi
built over a smaller one. TWO concentric apertures, one in each
chorten, make it possible t o see inside the smaller edifice,
where, i t is said, those whose minds are perfectly pure may dis-

.. .

...

MY JOURNEY T O LHASA
cern countless lighted lamps, whilst, for ordinary mortals, there
is but darkness.
I climbed the narrow staircase up to the opening and, gazing
into it, began t o reflect upon the symbol suggested by that
inner chorten, yielding and refusing its radiance. I thought and
thought and, somewhat forgetting where I was, remained
longer than the average visitor, m y forehead against the stone,
as I gazed into the building. This was noticed, and the same
evening, a trapa shyly asked me if I had seen many lamps!
Leaving T a g chen Bumba, I wandered in several directions
across the country, in my hunt for books. Quite unexpected
circumstances led me t o discover, far out of the way, a lama
who had inherited a fine library, and who, like many of his
colleagues, did not care a t all for literature or philosophy. I
secured a good number of ancient and beautiful manuscripts
from him.
The time had now come for me t o decide upon my departure
from Thibet. I looked toward China, whence I had come. I
felt very tempted to turn eastward, and reach Yunnan by a new
road. I could, had I so chosen, have left Thibet without anybody ever suspecting my arduous journey and my stay a t Lhasa.
But something made me feel that what I had done must be
known. I obeyed this instinct and took the road to Gyantze,
the town of southern Thibet which has become a British outpost.
On my way I saw the strangely shaped Yamdok Lake in
which there is a ~ e n i n s u l awith a small separate lake. Here
I found the famous Sanding monastery, the residence of the
high lady lama, Dorjee Phagmo. It was in a rather dilapidated
condition.
Dorjee Phagmo (the diamond or most excellent sow) is
considered a manifestation, under a human form, of a deity
of the Buddhist Tantrik pantheon borrowed from India a t a
period when Buddhism had already completely degenerated,
and primitive doctrine hardly existed any longer. Many are the
legcnds about certain of the Sanding's abbesses, who in times of
danger or in other peculiar circumstances show themselves in
the form of a sow.

MY JOURNEY TO LHASA
T h e reverend lady was not a t Sanding when I was there.
I had seen her a t Lhasa and she had not yet returned from the
capital.
I reached Gyantze a t dusk and went straight t o the bungalow. T h e first gentleman who saw me and heard a Thibetan
woman addressing him in English was dumfounded. When
he had recovered he explained t o me that the bungalow's
rooms were occupied and directed me t o the fort, where the
officials and a small garrison of Indian troops are quartered.
M y arrival there produced the same effect. When I said that
I came from China, that for eight months I had wandered
across unknown parts of Thibet, had spent two months at
Lhasa and enjoyed in the Forbidden City all the New Year's
festivities, n o one could find a word t o answer me. In any
event, the gentlemen a t the fort welcomed me most kindly and
showed me the greatest hospitality, for which I shall ever
remain thankful.
I had still before me the long, dreadfully cold road across
the tablelands and blizzard-swept high passes, from Gyantze
t o the ThibeteIndian border. B u t the adventure was ended,
and alone in m y room, I said t o myself before closing my eyes
in sleep:
"Lha gyalo [The gods have won] !"
T h e first white woman had entered forbidden Lhasa and
shown the way. M a y others follow and open with loving hearts
the gates of the wonderland, " f o r the good, /or the welfare 01
many," as the Buddhist Scriptures say.
THE END